[Music]
and my show Tuesday October 11th 2005 we
have a remarkable program for you today
a unique opportunity we have in the
studio with us author Joan Melanie
her soon to be released is a farewell to
justice Jim Garrison JFK's assassination
and the case that should have changed
history it will be published by Potomac
books in the release date in November
now Jim Garrison's prosecution of Clay
Shaw and his investigation of the JFK
assassination once the case that should
have changed history and in fact Joan
melon's compelling book her
investigation over seven years will
change history hi Joan are you there hi
Maya
hello Joan hi Ralph let's start by
saying a little bit about who Joan is
Joan Mellon Temple University professor
and author is well known for her
biographies of Lillian Hellman and
Dashiell Hammett Kay Boyle her film
criticism and filmography of Marilyn
Monroe and the Battle of Algiers and
many Japanese filmmakers and movies and
also a biography about night one that is
outside the realm of the usual sports
biography Joan is the author of 17 books
and countless articles that have
appeared in the Baltimore Sun New York
Times Los Angeles Times and Philadelphia
Inquirer she has been a professor at
Temple University particularly one of
the creators of the Creative Writing
Program and in 2004 was awarded the most
coveted great teacher award for her
outstanding achievement particularly in
the Graduate writing program right well
Joan has as well
I written a very important investigative
oh called privilege which is an
investigation of the death of Sasha
Bruce who was the daughter of David ke
Bruce who was the US ambassador to Great
Britain and one of the key figures in
the OSS the predecessor of the Central
Intelligence Agency but with respect to
a farewell to justice let me say to you
that a farewell to justice in my
judgment his foreign way the most
significant document and investigative
work ever to emerge it was with respect
to the assassination of John F Kennedy
and I speak from experience here because
I have to say to you brothers and
sisters that as many of you are aware my
work with Bertrand Russell entailed the
formation of the who killed Kennedy
Committee in early 1964 we brought mark
Landler didn't rush to judgment was
written in a flat in London we indeed
were engaged in this effort and I can
tell you from experience and that
includes an acquaintance and involvement
with Jim Garrison that nowhere has there
appeared a book is devastating in its
documentation an exhaustive survey of
witnesses and its involvement with the
very plug ugly contract killers of
people who were not just involved in
discussing the assassination but in
implementing it to coordinates these are
the people who Joan buried it out and
has nailed I am convinced that for
decades this is going to be a benchmark
welcome and it's evidence in its
documentation and its witnesses who
studied and the implications there are
no longer implications it's right there
the head of the intelligence services
the Central Intelligence Agency and
military intelligence are the authors of
the execution of the President of the
United States over the next three hours
we'll be discussing with Joan the most
remarkable investigation yet Joan what
was the motivation and why did you begin
the reinvestigation of the Jim Garrison
inquiry into the John F Kennedy
assassination Maya I began writing a
biography of Jim Garrison I was a
biographer and
I thought he was an interesting person
whom I had known and I thought I would
talk about his handling of the office of
the district attorney in Orleans Parish
by the time I was into it for I don't
know some months I realized that this
was going to be a book about his
investigation a biography of his
investigation and after that I realized
too that his investigation went only so
far and it was only after the passage of
the JFK act in 1992 that voluminous
documents were issued by the FBI and CIA
and became available in the National
Archives and that these documents had
much to say about the investigation
begun by Jim Garrison in the 1960s so my
book really begins as a biography of Jim
Garrison then becomes a biography of his
investigation and finally as an
investigation of my own and I found
witnesses whom Garrison knew about but
who never really were forthcoming in
their discussions with garrison and
finally revealed what they knew only at
the very end when I saw them fact I did
the last interview for this book in June
of 2005 in Miami because I wasn't
satisfied with the explanations for why
Bobby Kennedy opposed Jim Garrison's
investigation so strongly we're going to
be going more into the particulars of
the Kennedy and his interference with
the garrison investigation in the second
hour but right now let's look a bit more
at what the structure of the garrison
investigation was and how you actually
peeled away all the layers and then were
able to substantiate what he had found
and then went even deeper so that you
actually got to the core of the
relationship that showed that Oswald was
not a lone assassin that in fact Oswald
Clay Shaw David Ferrie and many others
were involved in the conspiracy to
assassinate John F Kennedy yes sir yes
well we were questioned I think but in
any event question here I think has to
do with what
you to reprise Jim's investigation and
to take it to the places where he could
not go how did I do it in other words
how did I do how did you do it any
course you know a huge array of data and
evidence wasn't available to Jim during
his lifetime but then the actual
parroting out of witnesses and the
interviewing of those witnesses and
inducing them to come forward and to
acknowledge their relationships the
planning of the assassination its
implementation that is your work
building on Jim Garrison so it may be I
have to say you that and I speak here as
someone who is experienced in this I
have never seen anything like this
please expatiate a bit okay Ralph well I
was as you were talking I was thinking
of one particular witness who enabled me
to see Lee Harvey Oswald's role and that
he was involved with people who were
involved with u.s. customs for example
and I was driving down the roads of
Louisiana searching for anyone who had
been involved with Garrison's
investigation who knew clay Shaw and I
was driving in Bogalusa where I met one
of clay Shaw's friends and this friend
said he said what he had to say and then
he said you know you really should talk
to my wife and his wife came out and
said you know I had gone to Junior High
School with Lee Harvey Oswald and so
when he knocked on my door one day and
said does Wan live here I knew exactly
who he was they had gone to the same
junior high and she remembered him well
she called him Harvey and it turns out
that her neighbor was a man named Juan
Valdez who later would be the chief
suspect in the murder of a doctor named
Mary Sherman who was we think was
involved with one of Garrison's chief
suspects David Ferrie and so I learned
about Oswald's relationship with Juan it
completely inadvertently in another
example I got the information about how
Oswald Clay Shaw and David Ferrie
traveled together to Clinton and Jackson
in a very mysterious way but with this
very association of Oswald with Shaw
pointed to the fact that the cover-up of
the assassination had begun even before
the shooting in Dallas
well I've traveled across that ferry
from st. Francisville over the
Mississippi River terrified because it
seemed to me as if that raft were about
to sink and you have you a car on it and
I drove to Eunice Louisiana and I met
one of the garrisons investigators named
and Dischler and mrs. Dischler didn't
want when I finally got there she didn't
want to show me her notes because she
felt that she had been betrayed by a
previous author who wrote a book denying
what was actually in the notes which she
had seen the notes and two years later I
found myself driving through a monsoon
over the Atchafalaya swamp back to mrs.
dishes house where she sat with me for
days not only showing me the notebooks
but also discussing each page and all
her memories of the because the paid the
book was somewhat in shorthand very
quickly written and so I learned about
that very important trip that Oswald
took with ferry and Shaw up to Clinton
and Jackson whereas wal applied for a
job at East which is the East Louisiana
State Hospital at Jackson and where I
later learned and this Jimmie garrison
never knew we actually through a doctor
named dr. Frank Silva that as well did
indeed apply for a job at that hospital
and this was an incident Jim Garrison
knew about but which some people have
denied ever happened but I certainly
knew it did happen because dr. Frank
silver was the medical director of the
hospital during the summer of 1963 and
he saw Oswald in a very different mode
from the Oswald who stood on Canal
Street and handed out leaflets
supporting fair play for Cuba and was
supposedly pro-castro because what
Oswald did when he was at the East
Louisiana State Hospital of Jackson was
talk about how he was going to kill
Castro and there I learned that the
Oswald was indeed there and that Oswald
somehow believed that he his function
was going to be to kill Fidel Castro not
to kill John F Kennedy well in this
regard I think we need to explain to our
listeners just the significance of the
placing of Shaw and Lee Harvey Oswald
and I believe die Bannister together in
the same place inspiring as it were to
position by Oswald in certain key
respects but perhaps we should elucidate
John the Central Intelligence Agency
see relationship of Clay Shaw and indeed
of Oswald and of David Ferrie the key
figures that were discussing here okay
well let's talk about clay show first
clay Shore was the man whom garrison
indicted for participation in the
conspiracy to murder John F Kennedy and
when we look at clay Shaw's background
what we find is that he rose very
rapidly in the army although he never
actually appeared on the field of battle
and it was clear that he worked with
military intelligence during the war
during the Second World War when he
returned to New Orleans he was from
Kentwood Louisiana although he wrote on
his CIA file his application or whatever
at the font the CIA file says that he
was born in New Orleans and that's what
Shaw said when he was arrested in fact
he was born in the town called Kentwood
and he came back to New Orleans and
immediately joined something called
Mississippi shipping well Mississippi
shipping was a CIA proprietary in New
Orleans and from there Shaw joined the
International Trade Mart where
ultimately he became its managing
director and the International Trade
Mart in New Orleans was a CIA project as
were several other such trade Mart's
that were enacted by the CIA it was
particularly important in New Orleans
which was a port and heavily infiltrated
by the CIA sure then really was very
grateful to the CIA for probing him he
actually was a high school dropout never
had studied economics didn't know
anything about trade yet was the
managing director of this huge
International Trade Mart and so I think
and I think garrison thought when the
CIA called Shaw and asked him to look
after Oswald in the state of Louisiana
Shaw could not help but agree to do it
it's not that Shaw had anything really
that he had a desire to murder John F
Kennedy but rather that he was
fulfilling an assignment and repayment
for what the CIA had done for him you
could see some traces of Shaw's
relationship with the CIA when one of
Garrison's investigator is actually an
assistant district attorney named
Richard burns one day telephone Clay
Shaw at home and he said is John Shaw
there and Shaw was suspicious and he
said who sent you which is not the sort
of thing you would say to someone
calling up
you don't know who sent you but Shah was
obviously accustomed to receiving such
telephone calls the key piece of
evidence that garrison developed about
Shah really had to do with a meeting
that took place at the home of David
Ferrie so I'll say a couple of words
about fairy fairy was a disgrace to
Eastern Airlines pilot and he was
disgraced not because of anything he did
politically but because he committed
what in New Orleans at the time were
called crimes against nature and in
particular his involvement with young
boys and they're running away from home
and coming to him and all of this and
David Ferrie was a CIA contract pilot
who flew missions into Cuba burning the
sugarcane fields exfiltrating people
infiltrating other people and around him
he had a group of young boys who had
joined something called the Civil Air
Patrol which very led and among those
boys was Lee Harvey Oswald so a
relationship existed between Lee Harvey
Oswald and David Ferrie dating from the
1950s before Oswald joined the Marines
so now we're coming to the late
September perhaps of 1963 at a party at
David fairy's house called a gathering
we see Clay Shaw Lee Harvey Oswald is
present during that evening only he's
called Leon which he was on several
occasions in this story and they're
discussing the assassination of
President Kennedy in particular Shaw and
David Ferrie discussing what their
alibis would be for November 22nd 1963
and they're doing this in the hearing of
a young man named Perry Russo who was
one of David Ferries acolytes perhaps
and is sitting there listening and
eventually after only after David Ferrie
died under mysterious circumstances it's
really not clear what he died but he
died on February 22nd 1967 and the
following week Perry Russo came forward
and wanted to tell his story to the
sheriff in Baton Rouge and the Sheriff's
Office in Baton Rouge didn't want to
hear it and they said go to the
newspapers and so Perry Russa went to a
Baton Rouge newspaper and told about
David Ferrie didn't talk about Shaw at
that moment but he did talk about Fairy
and garrisons investigators in New
Orleans read the newspaper and mumu
chambray was one of Garrison's people
drove up to Baton Rouge the next day to
talk to Perry Russo
it was then on that Saturday that Perry
Russo told mg shaumbra about the party
at David fairies in which fairy and Clay
Shaw discussed what their alibis would
be for the day of the assassination
these alibis turned out to be true David
Ferrie was in Hammond at Southeast
Louisiana University and Clay Shaw was
in San Francisco during the
assassination so both of them found it
turned out to be true garrison
immediately had Perry Russo take sodium
pentathol to see if he was telling the
truth really they did that they knew the
evidence and they did that just to check
and Russo said the same things before
the sodium pentathol test and this was
something that I discovered Perry Russo
sat before a police artist and he
described the people that he saw at
David Ferries apartment in particular he
described the man who called himself
clam Bertrand and clay Bertrand was the
alias of Clay Shaw and as Perry Russo
described this person the artist was a
police officer drew the picture and it
turned out to be an exact likeness of
Clay Shaw now you might wonder whether
that police artist who was come forward
here for the first time was telling the
truth but the fact that he turns out to
be the person to whom my book is
dedicated a New Orleans police officer
who first walked the beat on Bourbon
Street later was part of New Orleans
police intelligence still later was one
of the members of Team three the
Louisiana investigators who worked for
the United States for the House Select
Committee on assassinations and a police
officer of impeccable record named
Robert Buras and Robert beers his
ambition in life was to be an artist but
because he grew up in the projects and
was poor and his dad was an alcoholic
and he had nothing he had to become a
policeman but it wasn't what he he
actually wanted to be an artist and so
he is the person who drew that likeness
of Clay Shaw well Jim this is incredibly
important and and you have a chapter in
your book called an operative in action
which details the intelligence role of
Clay Shaw and in it you quote Clay Shaw
at a press conference on March 2nd of
the day after Jim Garrison arrested him
that Clay Shaw said explicitly I did not
know Harvey Lee Oswald me preferring to
Lee Harvey Oswald and that he had never
met mr. Dave Ferrie and here you have
tied them all together not only that you
go into Shaw's recruiting of guy
Bannister of whom I'd like you to speak
also in a program called is it ken-chan
UK enchant Q its q ke n CH ent and then
also you uncovered that Clay Shaw was
not just a CIA employee that he was
particularly an agent and you have John
written a long time officer in
clandestine services in charge of
reviewing counterintelligence operations
you have him discussing actually the
files of Clay Shaw even though these
files were couraged and if I can read
from your book on page 143 it says far
from being a mere asset for the domestic
contact service Clay Shaw was a CIA
operative his records resided with
counterintelligence Arthur Dooley of the
counterintelligence research and
analysis staff headed by Raymond broker
nicknamed the rock by Chief James
Angleton one day telephone John P
Dempsey the director of research duly
revealed how well aware he was of clay
Laverne Shaw did not bother with the
fantasy of attaching an ending date to
clay Shaw's counterintelligence service
remarkable remarkable research Joan with
respect to the Central Intelligence
Agency high-level role of Clay Shaw of a
substantial period of time we also have
the evidence concerning the CIA history
of Lee Harvey Oswald at Atsugi Air Force
Base and with his false defection to the
Soviet Union and with his subsequent
return run by the CIA
FBI
and so on well let me just mention one
point because you said so many things we
have to get back to who guy Bannister
was as well but one of the points that I
think is worth making is that fair play
for Cuba itself was heavily infiltrated
by the CIA and in particular was a
project of the propaganda specialist
David at Lee Phillips so it was no
accident that Oswald was standing there
on Canal Street and also in front of the
International Trade Mart where clay Shaw
were giving out his leaflets for a fair
play for Cuba and I also want to mention
that although it was known I think I
proved without any doubt that Oswald was
working for more than one agency for
working for United States customs and
those files let me add right here have
not been opened although it would seem
that at the National Archives we have
all the records of the Church Committee
and the House Select Committee on
assassinations in fact all of the
records at the Church Committee which
show that Oswald was working closely
with US Customs still remain sealed to
this day however the summaries exist and
that's where I got the information
because the summaries of those
interviews can be found at the National
Archives by agencies you're referring to
the CIA the FBI and the US custom now is
yes and yes am I now as far as the FBI
is concerned the Warren Commission knew
about that and that was how jim garrison
started on his investigation and i think
it's interesting to mention that
throughout his life including in his
books garrison always said that it was
Russell long Senator Russell long who
was the son of the Huey Long who first
got him on to investigating the
assassination of John F Kennedy and this
wasn't true at all in fact the person
who inspired Jim Garrison and Garrison
kept this secret because he didn't want
to blow his cover was Louisiana
representative Hale Boggs Hale Boggs was
a member of the Warren Commission and
Hale Boggs was present during one of the
closed sessions of the Warren Commission
at which FBI records of Lee Harvey
Oswald were discussed and Allen Dulles
was also on the Warren Commission of the
CIA director whom John F Kennedy had
fired
had told all the warn commissioners that
this none of this must ever leave the
room and of course the first thing that
Hale Boggs did was to tell Jim Garrison
about Oswald's connection to the FBI and
hearing that garrison realized that the
investigation that had begun in 1963
when he questioned David Ferrie during
the weekend of the assassination turned
out to be something that the Warren
Commission had not investigated at all
and that he really should resume his
investigation one of the people whom I
interviewed at great length was the FBI
clerk William Walter and I think he's
one of the most important witnesses he
was deposed before the House Select
Committee who tried to discredit him at
every turn and I think that William
Walter stood up well under that
questioning and I think he's an entirely
credible witness William Walter was a
young Tulane student in 1963 and during
the summer when Lee Harvey Oswald was
arrested on Canal Street for a skirmish
that he had with members of a Cuban
organization called d-r-e which was the
Directorate of Students Oswald was
arrested and taken to jail where he was
questioned by lieutenant Francis
Martello and Oswald told lieutenant
Martello call the FBI and tell them that
you have Lee Harvey Oswald here actually
I think he said Lee Oswald
now Martell never talked about this and
he only did so many many years later in
the 1990s a lot well Martello telephone
the FBI a person who answered the
telephone was William Walter and William
Walter it was I guess late at night
maybe on the weekend and there was only
one FBI agent President was name was
John Quigley and Quigley immediately
told Walter to see if they had any files
on Lee Harvey Oswald and of course the
place was filled with files including a
file that was in the filing cabinet of
the special agent in charge down there
and there became clear that Lee Harvey
Oswald was part of our FBI operations in
New Orleans this was a security file
that was kept in a locked cabinet they
were also informant files and on that on
the jacket of Lee Harvey Oswald's
security file was the name of a very
well known FBI agent down there in New
Orleans called Warren two breweries who
won't until this day and I've spoken to
him maybe two months ago
denies that he ever knew Oswald although
he did say to me something that he never
said before what he said was you know I
wouldn't be a very intelligent man if I
never changed my mind
and I'll take that as an admission by
Warrender breweries because otherwise he
was the toughest although he was not the
special agent in charge he was the
toughest of the FBI agents down there
anyway there's Oswald's relationship
with the FBI I spelled out beyond a
doubt the CIA records do not reveal that
Oswald was part of the false defector
program that went into the Soviet Union
but it was pretty clear that he was all
the evidence points to that let's take a
moment to look at the intelligence
relationships here the fair play for
Cuba committee at the time was one
person operation Lee Harvey Oswald but
it was operating out of a particular
location and it was a building that had
offices of somebody named guy Bannister
which was a clearinghouse for
intelligence operations you have here
convergence of guy Bannister Harvey
Oswald David Ferrie Clay Shaw and in
various circumstances Jack Ruby as well
the convergence of the central figures
into planning and implementation of the
assassination of John F Kennedy would
you expand upon your own documentation
of this with witnesses and documents
well first I think we have to tell the
audience who guy Bannister was guy
Bannister had been the special agent in
charge of the FBI office in Chicago
which of course was mafia stronghold he
came to New Orleans where as a cover he
joined the police department and became
and I can't recall his exact title but
he got into a drunken rage once in a bar
and he took out his gun and whatnot and
he was fired from the police department
he ran what was supposedly a detective
agency at 5:31 Lafayette Street and the
side entrance of that building now the
United States courthouse at 500 camp
Street but the side entrance is 544 Camp
Street and layer of the Oswald stamped
544 Camp Street on some of the leaflets
that he gave out in the for fair play
for Cuba
and this created quite a disturbance
when Jim Garrison started his investing
he took note of that and it was garrison
sitting in his office one day with
several Cubans who were helping him who
said wait a minute what number camp what
number camp and we have this on tape
because the district attorney's office
taped that session and then garrison
realized that Oswald actually was
operating out of the offices of God
Bannister God Bannister was in close
touch with the FBI with the CIA
he sent jeeps to Cuba he was involved in
anti-castro activities he was involved
in collecting ammunition for an invasion
of Cuba he was involved in supplying
money from the CIA to the training camps
training Cuban exiles to invade Cuba
north of Lake Pontchartrain all these
names are so familiar now aren't they
and Oswald had an office on the second
floor of banisters office and Bannister
also had files on everybody
anti-communist files and one of the
young men who was a spy for Bannister
and infiltrating left-wing organizations
noticed Oswald's on the street I've
noticed first Oswald in banisters office
and then noticed Oswald in the street
giving out pro-castro leaflets and they
said well you know what what's going on
here and Bannister said and I think
garrison to discover that that was one
of us don't worry about him he's one of
us so it's fairly clear that Oswald was
connected with these agencies Bannister
was connected with these agencies both
were connected with the plots that the
CIA had been running to murder Fidel
Castro I don't know if that how far we
should go with that now garrison began
his investigation with a character a New
Orleans character named Jack Martin and
Jack Martin was working a part time with
guy banister Jack Martin therefore knew
David ferry and he knew that Oswald was
seen in guy banisters office and so when
President Kennedy was assassinated Jack
Martin started telling everyone in New
Orleans wait a minute David Ferrie
who was a resident here in New Orleans
knew Lee Harvey Oswald the killer of
President Kennedy very well and that
started Jim Garrison's investigation in
1963 now when garrison resumed his
investigation in 1966 and 1967 one of
the first people he called in was Jack
Martin and I think if the
people who have seen the movie JFK
though remembered Jack Martin was played
by Jack Lemmon and they might remember
the scene in which guy Bannister
pistol-whips
Jack Martin for something for actually
for stealing a file from his office
which turns out to have been true and
may very well have been the Lee Harvey
Oswald file that guy Bannister had kept
one of the discoveries that I made and I
want to give thanks to one of the people
who helped me find these documents who
was name is Malcolm Blount and who lives
in England one of the documents that I
found was that document in which
Bannister is recruited by QK and chant
now QK and chant was a CIA project and
it permitted a CIA asset or employee to
recruit other people who were not part
of the CIA for CIA projects many people
who have defended Clay Shaw have said oh
well QK in chant was just something
about debriefing people do briefing
businessmen and that really isn't true
it was a project that involved CIA
operatives who were given the authority
to recruit people who were not part of
the agency well John you have August
1960 that Shaw is recruiting a guy
Bannister and right a recently uncovered
secret CIA document reveals that guy
Bannister associates was of interest to
the agency 4qk and chant in the
interrupter a minute Meyer I forgot to
mention it's there's so much material to
cover and that is that it required some
effort to prove that Clay Shaw knew God
Bannister that these were people were
part of the same operation now I have a
witness named Allen Campbell who worked
for guy Bannister who told me that
of course god Bannister used to meet
with quite sure frequently but the
significance of that document is if god
Bannister were in fact recruited 4qk and
chant well the only member of QK and
chant in New Orleans was Clay Shaw so
there we have the connection between guy
Bannister and Clay Shaw confirmed by a
second developed by a document itself
today we're speaking with author Joan
Mellon investigator Joan Mellon who has
prepared the most incredible compelling
book a farewell to justice Jim Garrison
JFK's assassination and the case that
should have changed history this is the
first interview with Joan for the
release of her book WBAI is very
fortunate today to have Joan with us
here in the studio well I want to
emphasize here because we're dwelling on
some of the particulars and the
particulars are of great significance
not only because key witnesses come
forward and Joan is unearthed they can
Rob rating documents she's ferreted them
out she's got them out of people who had
been hoarding them and hiding them she
solicited them and covered them from
files that had not been labeled as such
but let's put this in his larger context
brothers and sisters Clay Shaw CIA
Harvey Oswald CIA David Ferrie
CIA guy banister CIA Jack Ruby FBI on
CIA they're not just a team on their own
as Joan's book elucidation has her
documentation and her interviews and her
time spent with the actual culprits
makes clear we're talking about the top
echelons of the Central Intelligence
Agency and of military intelligence
David aptly Philips the head of
stationed throughout Latin America
Richard help the director of the Central
Intelligence Agency himself James Jesus
angleton the head of counterintelligence
and with the Defense Intelligence Agency
all of this emerges from this book
irrefutably with over wealth
documentation it's not just a
vindication of Jim Garrison but it's the
documentation beyond any question of the
treason at the top that the Kennedy
execution represents this is an
extraordinary document it's going to
remain such for decades I urge you to
buy it for an extraordinary achievement
eight years in the making that in my
judgment is the most significant
investigative work that I've come across
while we're so lucky to have Joan with
us for the three hours today we can only
touch upon the incredible research the
remarkable detail and there are almost a
hundred pages of very tiny print of
notes to accompany
to let you know where exactly she got
each piece of information and every
sentence is a new discovery in this book
and as though the dates of her
interviews it is a remarkable scholarly
work as well as an investigative tour de
force a farewell to justice Jim Garrison
JFK's assassination and the case that
should have changed history and we're
telling you this is a work that will
change history well let's be very clear
about this brothers and sisters
enshrining of a coup d'etat and the
execution of the head of state the
installation of the heads of the
intelligence agencies and the Joint
Chiefs and the military services in
effecting the murder of the president
sets the stage for the criminalization
of the state and all that is follows the
9/11 false flag the series of incidents
from the catastrophe of Katrina to the
flag of 9/11 flows from the
criminalization of the state in its
capture and this is the book that sets
the documentation forth without any
question it is essential it is essential
that we make this information available
that we not just make it available but
that we emphasize its significance the
book itself draws all of its appropriate
conclusions please this is a document
that you will read ten times and still
discover new information in it and all
of the political implications are
clearly drawn without any hesitation
drawn from the evidence drawn from the
massive interviewing documentation and
disclosure revelation legal disclosures
brothers and sisters a farewell to
justice this is the of the Jim Garrison
JFK investigation in the case that
should have changed history by Joan
Mellon it is a definitive work on the
Kennedy execution of the hundreds of
books that appeared on this subject
nothing even begins to approach the
extraordinary revelations that come
forward in this book that leave no
question remaining as to how Kennedy was
killed
and why keep the information coming
brothers and sisters the struggles ahead
depend upon the kind of revelations that
we're able to find in to make our own by
acquiring a farewell to justice by Jim
Ellen I wanted to say something can I
interrupt my course I first of all want
to thank WBAI for the opportunity to
discuss this book in such a way without
any hesitation for this length of time
and to explore the ideas I can't think
of any other station in the country
where this would be possible and I
didn't know that you call it free speech
radio but that's certainly what it is
and I'm extremely grateful for that I
think it's extremely rare increasingly
rare and I can't applaud WBAI enough I'd
also like to mention that there are
other aspects of the social history of
the United States of the 1960s in this
book as well as the discussion of the
assassination of President Kennedy one
of those is the civil rights movement
and the efforts of coure especially it
turned out in that little town of
Clinton Louisiana in the summer of 1963
when Lee Harvey Oswald went up there
with Clay Shaw and David Ferrie it
turned out that Oswald stood on line to
register to vote in the middle of a core
registration drive and that was an
extremely important registration drive
because in East Feliciana Parish in
Louisiana I think they only had 10
african-american voters on the rolls
during that time very very that you
couldn't vote and here's the the
registrar of voters in East Feliciana
Parish had a doll with a noose around
its neck on his door and he also had in
his office one of those anti civil
rights movement I don't know what to
call it the vicious posters against
Martin Luther King in which it was
Martin Luther King at the communists
school in Tennessee and one of the great
efforts in the state of Louisiana to
avoid integration was to suggest that
the civil rights movement was
infiltrated by communists and this was
and there's the Registrar of Voters up
there in East Feliciana Parish Henry
year-old Palmer with that poster and the
same poster appear
in the barber shop of Lia McGee where
Lee Harvey Oswald went to have a haircut
on that trip up there and ultimately
became his visit to the hospital to
apply for a job and Joanie
oh I spoke to McGee as recently as two
days ago he's still alive I also spoke
and I think a much more important person
for me was the chairman of corps in East
Feliciana Parish a man named Corey
Collins and this is a person who was a
Vietnam veteran who was not given the
right to vote and Henry Earl Palmer told
Corey Collins well you fail well why did
he fail because he answered all the
questions on the exam correctly and you
only had to answer I think six out of
the ten and so he failed for that and
okay and then there was a period of time
that elapsed before you could go back
and register again and Corey Collins
went back and of course registered to
vote one of the things that I found out
about is the stereotypes that we have
about the South you know have to be
adjusted a little bit Corey Collins was
so courageous that he stood up to the
Klan at every chance and he knew where
they met they used to meet at a TV
repair shop and he'd go in there when he
saw all the cars outside so he knew the
Klan was meeting and he would go in
there just to show that he knew that
that they that they should know that he
knew that the Klan was meeting and he
was extremely courageous extremely
forceful and Cory Collins was one of the
people who came down to New Orleans in
February of 1969 to testify at the trial
of clay Shawn and to show that Clay Shaw
certainly had lied when he said that he
didn't know Oswald or Ferry more to the
point Oswald because Cory Collins was
one of what was called were called the
Clinton witnesses and what Cory Collins
told me and he never told Jim Garrison
Cory Collins worked for the post office
in Baton Rouge at the time of Garrison's
investigation and as a result of his
testifying for Jim Garrison Corey
Collins was fired by the United States
Post Office they had written to him on
saying he had to be in at work on
Saturday morning when they knew we
couldn't possibly get back up there in
time out to be at work and I was fired
and he never told garrison and I said
well why didn't you tell garrison and he
was just so stoical and he didn't
to bother garrison with the fact that
he'd been fired from his job because he
testified at the trial of Clay Shaw and
the one of the great sadnesses for me
was that Corey Collins died a year ago
this month in October and so would not
ever read the book and I call him an
unsung hero which is the title of
chapter 14 and Corey cones facedown
lynch mobs and one time they remove
somebody from a jail and we're gonna
Lynch somebody and he's just he got
there and he said by the time I get
there he better be back in jail they
better leave him where he was and they
did and later when some of Clay Shaw as
friends went up there and tried to
intimidate Corey Collins father he
exposed them and he knew as Liars
because they said that a deputy sheriff
had she pointed out the Collins house
and Corey Collins said well the deputy
sheriff knew and of course this is a
racist who's used words that we won't
use on WBAI today but he said he knew
that he had did Corey Collins had told
all the so-called law enforcement up
there bother me not him referring to his
father and I think that Emmitt Collins
that was Corey Colin's father died the
previous two and then Corey Collins was
on dialysis throughout the time that I
knew him and he stayed alive through
that summer after his father died and
then he died himself as I said in
October we should remind people the core
is the Congress of racial equality and
at the time of which Joan is speaking
there were ten in the South you had to
pass a voter registration test before
you could register this was one of the
great struggles to eliminate the test
and allow people to register as citizens
of the United States but I think it's
important to emphasize here that what
emerges in the identifying of Oswald in
Clinton and his presence there was Clay
Shaw and with Dennis berry is that they
were running Oswald up there to take him
into the mental hospital and to create
the paper trail for the later setting up
of Oswald as Patsy and that the
significance of this is that as Joan's
elucidates in her book they were
preparing the cover story even before
the execution of Kennedy himself and
oh that's extremely important Ralph
because it shows that if the cover-up
began before the crime then you can
certainly say that the same people who
did the cover-up also did the crime many
people have tried to say well it's so
obvious that the CIA covered up what
happened in the assassination but is it
clear that they were involved in the
crime and of course here we see the two
processes being identical witnesses that
establish that I mean let's just take
James Wilcock who was with Oswald at
Atsugi Air Force Base and working at the
Central Intelligence Agency and his own
testimony about Oswald's role and the
role of the Central Intelligence Agency
and the role that was assigned to Oswald
as the fake Marxist the seeder least who
was the presumptive assassin that would
facilitate the invasion of Cuba in the
aftermath of the Kennedy execution I
wanted to correct one small point
regarding the component of the CIA that
was involved in the assassination and I
think it's the people that seem to be
involved here first of all of course the
legal offices of the CIA and Lawrence
Houston are present throughout this but
primarily it was the clandestine service
and not I would say the several other
components for example people in the
Soviet realities section which should
have been notified about Oswald's
presence in the Soviet Union and were
not were not informed and I think even
one might question whether the
clandestine service which at that time
was led by Richard Helms he was deputy
director for plans and plans meant dirty
operations or the clandestine service
it's not even clear whether John McCone
who was director of Central Intelligence
at the time was informed and I think we
know the phrase now plausible
deniability that it would be I think
they thought much better that he not
know and I think Helms pretty much
admitted when he testified before the
Church Committee that there was a great
deal of information that they never
shared with John McCone precisely so
that he could say that he didn't know
about this or that and that he he just
really didn't know and that he would be
telling the truth and I think it's very
likely that the same was true for the
Kennedy assassination it's
sells well now Joan let's talk for a
moment about the revelations that
occurred in the Italian newspaper by
easy Sara which had been carrying out an
investigation in Italy during the late
60s into the Central Intelligence Agency
role in Italy in preparing the potential
military puts in Italy that did in fact
occur in Greece and in what was later
disclosed to be something called
Operation Gladio the 40-years subversion
of the political process in Italy and
staging operations one of the things
that emerged from that series of
investigative reports in PI Z Sara was
the proprietary company centrum on the
alchemor cially World Trade Mart with a
figure named clay Shaw and another
operation of the Central Intelligence
Agency called permanent industrial
expositions or perman decks as you know
I sent those materials to Jim Garrison
at the time and you and I had occasion
to interview the editors and the
participants in that study a couple of
years ago yeah I wanted to make that
point you made it for me but I was going
to make that point that Jim Garrison
didn't have the CIA files that of Clay
Shaw that we have today but through
Ralph's efforts Ralph was in London at
the time working on the who killed
Kennedy Committee and also was executive
director of the Bertrand Russell Peace
Foundation and at that time
Ralph became friendly with the Italian
correspondent from PI az-zahra to London
named Georgia Avanti and through fonti
Ralph received the series of articles
that appeared in Piazza Sara which had
to do with the role of the CIA in
electoral politics in several countries
particularly France and Italy after the
war and what should be just written and
through the surprise of the players a
Sarah editors was that on the board of
perman decks which was the main
organization and then that CMC in Rome
was
Clay Shaw and so it had been difficult
to prove number one that this CMC and
permanent acts
were CIA projects but also that Clay
Shaw was enlisted by the heads of those
organizations to be on the board of
directors which would be an American
Central Intelligence Agency asset
endorsing those activities in Europe one
of the documents that I received shows
it's a CIA document from 1948 and it
showed that Ference Nagy who was one of
the leaders of permanent decks was and
had been CIA asset since the early days
of the CIA since its inception really in
1947 and in 1948 with the involvement of
guy Bannister and in the activities of
firm index and of Clay Shaw the central
Mondale converts ero not only what led
to the assassination of Kennedy but in a
labyrinth LAN to support the crashes in
France who were involved in the OAS and
Algeria as Jacques Cousteau and the
planned assassination of Charles de
Gaulle that's right when the CIA could
not influence the elections in these
European countries through spending
money and giving money to the political
parties from the CIA I wanted to support
they supported assassination attempts
and as you say Ralph against de Gaulle
and certainly they were very big
supporters of the OAS which are this
fascist torture organization which you
can see trying to prevent the liberation
of Algeria from France and that you see
in geela Pontecorvo's film the Battle of
Algiers we're speaking with author Joan
Mellon and we're discussing to be
released a farewell to justice Jim
Garrison JFK's assassination and the
case that should have changed history
this is a book that will change history
because Lucie Bates and it uncovered new
information that confirms without a
doubt that Lee Harvey Oswald was not a
loner but a government agent for the CIA
in the whirlings FBI office and US
customers that he worked closely and
connected to the CIA sponsored
anti-castro figures in New Orleans
including
Shaw of whom we've been speaking David
Ferrie and a Cuban associate of Shaw's
at the International Trade Mart named
Juan Valdez Clay Shaw and David Ferrie
both garrison suspects and CIA
operatives implemented the assassination
they helped frame Oswald as the murderer
let me point out that Joan it was a
period of nearly eight years interviewed
thousand people 1,000 people
she ferreted out every last associate of
the people involved in the execution of
Kennedy she not only did that but tens
of thousands of documents were searched
and perused and documents that produced
snippets of information in each document
each of them explosive this is
integrated now in a seamless this
depiction of the unfolding of this
execution and it's instruction from the
highest levels don't talk a moment about
Maurice Bishop and Lee Harvey Oswald and
who is Maurice Bishop don't talk a
moment about Maurice Bishop and Lee
Harvey Oswald and who is more efficient
Maurice Bishop is the name one of the
aliases that David at Lee Phillips took
and it was an unusual moment when one of
the leaders of the Cuban exile
anti-castro movement Antonio ves iana
testified or rather I shouldn't say that
he testified but he revealed to the
Miami investigator Gaytan FONSI that he
had seen his own handler Bishop which
was Phillips talking to Lee Harvey
Oswald and it was a rare moment that but
then we also have evidence that David at
Lee Phillips was seen at the training
camps north of Lake Pontchartrain with
David ferry and Lee Harvey Oswald and
others so I wanted to get back though
Ralf to one other point about Jim
Garrison and the Italian newspaper PI as
a Sarah and that is that in the last
five years there have been renewed
attacks on Jim Garrison and one of those
attacks has said that the only reason
that garrison charged the CIA with
having been responsible for the murder
of President Kennedy was that he read a
this in piace sarah and the piace sarah
was blaming the CIA for its interference
in European politics only as a result of
disinformation sent by the KGB and one
of the things that I had to do then was
to go to the surviving editors of piace
Sarah and asked them whether it was in
fact true that they were targeting the
CIA only as a result of the instruction
of the KGB and one of the people I found
was a man named John Franco Corsini who
was absolutely indignant that the KGB
could have influenced this newspaper and
I like what he said to me we have no
reason to trust new CIA documents any
more than old KGB documents and he said
that he hoped for the demise of both the
CIA and the KGB well that's precinct
isn't it because the CIA today is not
what it was in john f kennedy's time
well i should mention in regard to that
this is max holland who was on the
Editorial Board of the nation but is
what we call a CIA writer he actually
writes for the CIA website and it's
Holland who has fabricated this
ridiculous claim that by easy Sarah was
a vehicle for the KGB the irony of it
all is that the IEDs hair which is a
newspaper of the independent left was
not tied to the Italian Communist Party
and so what if it had but how easy Sarah
is rather than algis to the nation
itself ironically enough but it was
socks or rope I see Sarah Simone de
Beauvoir is the vehicle of the
independent and left intelligentsia
across Europe in the United States it
was a daily newspaper with a very
substantial following and this
investigative report was concerned with
the role of the CIA in Italy it's only
quite fortuitously that they stumbled
upon the presence of figures like Clay
Shaw on the board of directors of these
proprietary Central Intelligence Agency
companies that were in Italy we're
speaking with Jenny Mellon the author of
this remarkable investigative work a
farewell to justice Jim Garrison JFK's
assassination and the case that should
have changed history
one thing you track down
talk about Clay Shaw is that as I
mentioned earlier Shaw denied that he
ever knew David Ferrie and in a book you
mentioned that fairy in order to rent
the plane to go to Dallas that he
actually took out a loan and it was
co-signed by Clayton Oh Maya that was
one of the biggest discoveries that I
made and I made it because I don't know
how well I do now looking back there was
a retired police officer who was the
founder of I think the policeman's Union
named Irv Magri and he said you have to
talk to this former policeman from
Kenner because he knows something and it
turned out that this former policeman
from Kenner knew a loan officer named
herb Wagner who had also been with the
Civil Air Patrol new ferry very very
well and also flew missions for the CIA
and one day during Garrison's
investigation Herr Wagner was sitting in
his office late at night with this
police officer and he said I have
something and I wonder whether I should
tell Jim Garrison and he opens up a file
drawer at the bottom of the way in the
back he reaches into this file drawer
and he pulls out a loan application and
here's David Ferrie only several weeks
before the assassination applying for a
loan and when Wagner who was called von
Wagner by everyone very dramatic and he
would not give ferry the loan and
there's clay Shaw signature as the
cosigner showing not only that the two
knew each other but that they were
collaborating on this flight that ferry
took to Dallas two weeks or maybe even
one week before the assassination now I
want to add here a fact and that is that
when David ferry was interviewed by the
FBI and the Secret Service right after
the assassination he said that he hadn't
been in Dallas between eight and ten
years so obvious lie of course ferry was
never interviewed by the Warren
Commission or well he was dead by the
time of the House Select Committee
investigation but that loan document I
tried to find the actual document
because wouldn't that be wonderful to
have it and Wagner had died and all of
his files were put in garbage bags and
his wife diligently threw them all away
and so I asked his daughter to go
through her garage see if possibly that
file could have survived but I have to
say that it didn't so I do have the
testimony
of the police officer and of his
daughter certainly of his daughter as to
his CIA connections now we're talking
here about a relationship between Clay
Shaw and David Ferrie who was a contract
pilot for the Central Intelligence
Agency as well as for carlos marcello of
the mob and a contract player who flew
operations of sabotage and of carrying
agents in and out of Cuba to attack Cuba
I want to stop you for one second Ralph
and David Ferrie was not really Carlos
Marcello's pilot David Ferrie worked for
G ray Gill who was the lawyer of Carlos
Marcello and Gil had represented ferry
when ferry was fired from his job as a
pilot for Eastern Airlines and the ferry
couldn't pay Gil so as a favor to Gil
ferry flew Carlos Marcello he flew him
back from Guatemala to the United States
he got a passport for Marcelo and taped
it to his chest and all of this but it's
very misleading to try to draw
particular mafia connections between
David Ferrie and carlos marcello that
wasn't the case one of the things that I
discover in the book and I think this is
extremely important is where the story
originated that the Mafia had been
involved in the planning of the
assassination of President Kennedy
because that was the second line of
defense it was certainly the second line
of defense for the House Select
Committee once they received acoustic
evidence that showed that there were
more than three shots fired in Daley
Plaza that made it impossible for Oswald
to have been the single assassin so if
it were a conspiracy which is more than
two people involved then the House
Select Committee Chief counselled Robert
Blakey put forth the view will it had to
be the Mafia that view that the Mafia
was involved in planning the
assassination was a brainstorm of J
edgar Hoover's and the FBI and I think
in the book I show exactly how that
happened the other side of that was to
blame garrison for supporting the Mafia
that was the other way of discrediting
garrison Hoover also thought of that and
he thought a good way to discredit
garrison would be to that he protected
carlos marcello now carlos marcello
operated out of jeff out of Jefferson
Parish not out of Orleans Parish
it didn't make any difference if enough
reporters would write it if enough
people would say it it could be true
Hoover was a master and so even as
recently as when I did my own
investigation people would say to me
that garrison protected carlos marcello
it certainly wasn't true now everybody
knows everyone in New Orleans or knew
everyone and certainly garrison knew
Marcelo partly because one of Marcello's
many lawyers was Russell Shauna cos with
whom garrison practice law if you could
call it that because garrison never
liked to practice law and after he lost
his job as District Attorney he would
occasionally go into the office and
mostly he provided referrals and so
Marcelo appeared at that office now and
then and everybody knew everyone even my
own doctor here in New York City at
Mount Sinai Hospital who was in studying
medicine at Tulane University during the
these days once told me that he'd ran
into Carlos Marcello at a funeral that
he was standing at the back at this
funeral chatting with a man and when he
sat down with is dr carmel cone one of
the great doctors of the universe and
one of his friends said do you know who
you were talking to back there that was
carlos marcello so if the gynecologist
from that sinai hospital knew carlos
marcello or was seen talking to him you
can be sure everybody in Orleans Parish
did oh but garrison did not help the
Mafia and when Robert Blakey and his
deputy Gary Cornwall tried to connect
the Mafia to the assassination I should
say that even Aaron Cohn one of
Garrison's bitterest enemies the head of
the Metropolitan Crime Commission had
defended the FBI and said they did not
protect the Mafia the Mafia had nothing
to do with it an Oswald's family weren't
even so much involved with the Mafia as
Blakey and his co-author Richard
Billings would have you believe well
let's go into some of the rooms that
were used like you've been talking about
now but the means to discredit the
garrison investigation and Garrison
personally one of your remarkable
chapters in the book I mean every
chapters remarkable one I particularly
found so dramatic and engaging was
chapter 12 white paper where you talk
about Justice Department lawyer Walter
Sherrod
and how at Bobby Kennedy's request
Sheridan orchestrated an NBC white paper
and also the penetration of garrison
office before we talk about Walter
Sheridan we have to say who Walter
Sheridan was he was part of the National
Security Agency cleared for the CIA
cleared for the FBI so he represented
many agencies before he went to work
primarily for Robert Kennedy at the
Justice Department and what Walter
Sheridan's big project was was not first
it was not Jim Garrison it was to
destroy Jimmy Hoffa and he and I three
remarkable articles appeared by Fred
cook in the Nation magazine which
exposed exactly what Sheridan did he
used his three favorite methods
wiretapping blackmail and bribery and he
managed to get Hoffa convicted he lied
he cheated he did every and he was ahead
of what was called Robert Kennedy's
wiretapping unit and Sheridan succeeded
Hoffa was convicted and the coda to that
story is so appalled was Chief Justice
aura warned that he dissent when when
the Hoffa conviction came up before the
United States Supreme Court for review
Earl Warren dissented and wanted to let
off a go because of the methods that
Walter Sheridan used he was an absolute
thug he was a criminal himself now he's
finished with Hoffa what does he do he
sent down to New Orleans to destroy Jim
Garrison before he gets there he
establishes credentials he's suddenly a
producer for NBC television he had
produced one other thing in Detroit in
order to pave the way and the CIA assets
down there such as Hugh Ainsworth who
was working for Newsweek magazine at the
time Ainsworth wrote an article about
Sheridan which he mentioned Sheridan as
a reporter and as a news producer four
times in the space of a one-page article
okay here comes Sheridan he comes down
to New Orleans and pretends to be
investigating the Kennedy assassination
and what he's doing is trying the
garrison investigation and the product
would be this white paper which did in
fact appear on NBC
what Sheridan tried to do when he failed
to do the one thing he failed to do was
to destroy Garrison's chief witness when
we talked about earlier Perry Russo and
he tried to bribe Russo and he tried to
tell Russo I'll get you a job in Los
Angeles we would you like to go
for Nia all you have to do is to say
that everything that you told Jim
garrison was a line well this is
extremely interesting because the Shaw
defense went to great lengths to
discredit Perry Russo it could only be
because they believe that exactly what
he said was was true and Russo had
testified at a preliminary hearing
now garrison had called a preliminary
hearing on the evidence which he didn't
have to do usually it's the defense that
calls a preliminary hearing but garrison
wanted to show what his evidence was and
I should mention for the people Lee who
are legal minded that at the time in the
state of Louisiana the prosecution did
not have to give its witness list to the
defense
so here's garrison exposing his chief
witness Perry Russo to the public and
gave the other side a chance for two
years to attempt to destroy him and that
was what Walter Sheridan went to New
Orleans to do so this shows the
collaboration of NBC the network itself
with Attorney General Robert Kennedy and
the FBI to prevent the real
investigation of the Kennedy
assassination well more than that to
would destroy the witnesses to threaten
them to threaten them with death to
threaten them with prison to blackmail
them to drive them to use any method
possible well you also was a very
courageous young fellow he worked for an
insurance company was quite a character
and he immediately went into Garrison's
office and signed an affidavit garrison
knew that Sheridan and James Phelan who
was another media asset it was reporting
to the FBI and the CIA garrison knew
that these people were getting at Russo
and so what happened and maybe garrison
was wrong to do this but he wired Russo
so that everything that happened there
was on tape so as a result of that I
have the tapes of Sheridan's attempts to
and falen's attempts to subvert Perry
rusa Perry Russo was strong Perry Russo
did not cave in in fact he went to the
district attorney's office and signed an
affidavit against Sheridan garrison then
indicted Sheridan now being the state of
Louisiana in 1967 and 1968 there was no
law against obstruction of justice
so garrison charged Walter Sheridan with
various charges bribery and so forth and
of course Sheridan was protected by the
federal courts
never went to trial you have to
summarize what is it that Rousseau
actually had witnessed where was he
president
what was he testifying to what was it no
I we talked about that a little earlier
what Rousseau testified to was that
meeting at David fairy's apartment when
clay Shah who went into the name of Clem
Bertrand and David Ferrie discussed the
assassination how President Kennedy
would be killed and what their alibis
would be now I should at this point for
people who don't remember the garrison
case talk about what that name clam or
clay Bertrand meant and this is also
this is of course part of the record and
even part of the Warren Commission and
that is on the Saturday after President
Kennedy was shot a New Orleans lawyer
also another mob lawyer named Dean
Andrews was in hotel view hospital
recovering from pneumonia when he
received a telephone call from someone
named clay Bertrand whom he knew asking
him to go to Dallas to represent Lee
Harvey Oswald
now Andrews was too sick to go so he and
this is corroborated he called a fellow
lawyer named monk Zeldin and he asked
him to go in his place go to Johnson
represent Lee Harvey Oswald and as they
were talking in a second conversation on
Sunday morning Zeldin said nobody has to
go to Dallas your boy just got shot and
there's a Jack Ruby had killed Lee
Harvey Oswald
now when the Warren Commission did talk
to Dean Andrews he never identified clay
Bertrand and of course what garrison who
knew everyone knew everyone of course
garrison knew Dean Anderson the first
official interview that Garrison did
when he resumed his investigation in
1966 was to have lunch with Dean Andrews
and to try to get the identification who
was clay Bertrand who was this Bertrand
and at this gathering that we were
talking about at which Perry Russo was
present Clay Shaw who was clay Bertrand
and I proved that up and down although
it's been difficult for Garson to prove
but I proved it I think further clay
shell went into the name Klem Bertrand
now it turns out through various
research that I did that that named that
clay shell used was the alias that he
chose as when he was helping
fellow homosexuals in New Orleans when
they were arrested against these what
were called in those days crimes against
nature and the irony of that is of
course a Garson was was a liberal I want
to mention that garrison was
deliberately did not want to prosecute
anybody ferry was prosecuted by the way
in Jefferson Parish not in Orleans
Parish he didn't want to prosecute
anybody for these victimless crimes he
really didn't care about what people's
sexual preferences were and despite what
Jack Anderson wrote in one of his
columns during the trial of Clay Shaw
garrison never once called a witness who
in any way could reveal what Clay Shaw
sexual practices were I do that in the
book but certainly garrison never used
that and as a result garrison lost many
witnesses who could have testified to
the fact that Clay Shaw was indeed the
clay Bertrand who telephoned Dean
Andrews to ask him to go to Dallas and
represent Lee Harvey Oswald but also
Sheridan didn't limit himself to trying
to get at Perry Rousseau he also
enlisted Gordon Novell to penetrate
Garrison's
that's that's interesting Gordon Novell
is remains a New Orleans character and I
rather a recent issue of Vanity Fair
there's a long discussion of Gordon
Novell who's saying that he was an
adviser to Michael Jackson in his recent
trial so Gordon Noel was one of the New
Orleans character who was available who
was an FBI informant and whom Sheridan
used as Maya says to penetrate
Garrison's office to steal documents to
steal lie-detector testimonies to
photographs whatever he could get his
hands on it so simultaneously
Gordon Oval was reporting to Walter
Sheridan and he was also reporting
everyday really to the FBI and thanks to
the Oliver Stone and to the JFK act we
have all of those reports from Gordon
Oval to the FBI that are available to
everyone in the National Archives one of
the things that Gordon Oval did for
Walter Sheridan was put him on - Marlene
man Cuusoo who was Gordon ovals ex-wife
and who was a garrison witness and and
then Walter Sheridan tried to subvert
morally Mancuso also offering her a job
on The Tonight
with Johnny Carson she was quite
beautiful she had been a Miss New
Orleans and Walter Sheridan promised
that he could get her a job on The
Tonight Show if she would take back the
testimony that she had given for Jim
Garrison that that testimony had to do
with the robbery of the Schlumberger a
munitions dump out in Houma Louisiana
which was masterminded by guy Bannister
by Gordon Oval possibly with David
Phillips authorization the same David
Phillips that ralph was referring to as
Morris Bishop and they stole all these
grenades and various war materiel which
they then trucked into New Orleans
ultimately bound for Miami and for the
efforts against Fidel Castro Joan David
at Lee Phillips was the head of station
for Latin America and in particular for
Mexico of the Central Intelligence
Agency for operations for Western
Hemisphere working very closely with JM
wave the CIA station in Miami he wasn't
actually chief of station in Mexico City
but that was under his jurisdiction and
David oddly Philip is a central and
coordinating figure with respect to the
key participants in the execution of
John Kennedy certainly David out Lee
Phillips was involved and he wrote his
memoirs it's called the M lash legacy
and it's in the form of a novel and his
wife has kept that under cover but an
assassination researcher managed to look
at some of it during depositions in a
lawsuit and so we see the David Ali
Phillips depicts himself as Lee Harvey
Oswald's handler in his fictionalized
version of the Kennedy assassination
well in fact that fictionalized version
of the Kennedy assassination by David
Lee Phillips actually elaborates the
entire scenario of setting up a feed
Avista as the fall guy for the
assassination and then carrying it out
as a government operation that's right
the CIA's original plan was to blame
Fidel Castro for the assassination and
that this would precipitate an invasion
of Cuba which was what the CIA and the
Pentagon at that time wanted and which
John F Kennedy did not want I know Evan
well the the Vietnam I mean in a way
because what happened was that although
they did not get there after the death
of President Kennedy they did not get
their war in Cuba they got something
even better which was the protracted war
in Vietnam because so many more profits
accumulated to the oil people the
helicopter people and the Western
interests that profited so much from the
Vietnam War and we see these same people
profiting of course from the Iraq war
one of the interesting things that
garrison wanted to do was to really
investigate George Brown and to look at
Brown & Root and to see and he
discovered there CIA connections the
documents were not available to garrison
although they are to us and so garrison
focused on Brown & Root and here is
Kellogg Brown and Root at the forefront
of the I don't know is it billions of
dollars that they have made from the
contracts in Iraq right we had discussed
the evolution development of Brown &
Root in our crony capitalism series and
Brown is very much connected with Lyndon
Baines Johnson and it was Lyndon Baines
Johnson even when he was in Congress
that got Franklin Delano Roosevelt to
award to Brown the original Road
building and then also dam building
monies and then later it was Brown who
promoted Lyndon Baines Johnson in his
congressional campaign there's very
close connection so I just before we go
any further I want to make a point that
I did not subscribe to the view that
Lyndon Johnson was involved in the
assassination of John F Kennedy what was
interesting to me is that you're saying
that garrison wanted to look further
into the role of Kellogg Brown and then
it was Kellogg Brown later became Brown
and Root I think at the time it was
brown there was Brown and Root and then
later became Kellogg Brown and Root and
then they were part of Halliburton much
much later
jaren you discuss CIA accounted with top
secret clearance named James Wilcox I
mentioned before I'd been with Oswald
edits oogi retired in 1966
there's an extraordinary passage here
where you cite wilcott as follows
Oswald received a full-time salary for
operational work there were at least six
or seven people who knew and believed
Oswald to be an agent of the Central
Intelligence Agency and he concludes
ruby was paid by the CIA to do away with
Oswald the plan was to kill Kennedy and
goz Walter Castro and used the pretext
to invade Cuba I think that's all
correct I think that Wilcock was the
House Select Committee attempted to
discredit him attempted to show well he
couldn't be right because the person he
cites was no longer there at the time
and so forth it's pretty lame I think he
was telling the truth I think he because
people often say how come there are no
loose ends how come nobody came forward
how come no one said anything and the
fact is that isn't true people have said
things there have been loose ends and
that was just an unfortunate for them
fact a this man did not testify for Jim
Garrison although I think he would have
wanted to after all
Joan after it was disclosed that Jim
Garrison was going to indict David
Ferrie he was found dead at the same
time Eladio del Valle came up with a
severe case of hatchet in the head in
Miami and Key Biscayne Mary Sherman is
found dead how many witnesses of people
who would come forward or had guilty
knowledge were silenced and eliminated
and disappeared and murdered in the
course of this process well I think
certainly the witnesses were afraid and
only last week when I was talking to the
barber Lea McGee who gave Oswald the
haircut he said you know I found the new
witness I found somebody who was
interviewed by the FBI right after the
assassination and he was interviewed
with a woman named Gladys Palmer who was
really should have been one of the
Clinton witnesses she had been a
stripper for Jack Ruby at the Carousel
Club and she was seen with Oswald quite
frequently during the spring and summer
of 1963 and the FBI had thought that
this man and Gladys Palmer were a
quote-unquote boyfriend and girlfriend
and they were they were taken in to the
jailhouse at st. Francisville and
questioned by the FBI and I said Omar I
really like to talk to this man and the
barber said well he's terrified he
still terrified to this day if the
example of Rose Jeremy and then there's
Rose Jeremy where Rose Jeremy of course
was not afraid and she was at the east
of the East Louisiana State Hospital of
Jackson during the day of the Kennedy
assassination and was predicted the
assassination had talked to some Cubans
who were with her and so she knew that
the assassination was coming and before
she could be a garrison witness she was
murdered in 1965 walking on some a
deserted Highway in Big Sandy Texas what
was she who would hitchhike on a
deserted Road instead of a main road and
she was hit by a car and died she also
said that Roger Rose Cheramie that she
was a stripper or a hooker for Ruby and
then she witnessed Ruby in Oswald
together quickly at the Carousel Club
that was one of the she was one of the
witnesses who could show that Ruby and
Oswald knew each other there have been
quite a few the book my book is chock
filled with witnesses who saw Oswald and
Ruby together at the Carousel Club and
elsewhere we're speaking with author
Joan Mellon investigative author but
farewell to justice Jim Garrison JFK's
assassination and the case that should
have changed history
Joan is decades friend and companion and
we know the methodical way in which he
approaches every one of the subjects and
for what she is written books and
analysis and and in the way she
approaches life and what I'm talking
about here brothers and sisters is a
Profile in Courage you hear a quiet
spoken fatica boo author investigator
researcher professor who has personally
physically been present with the killers
contract killers plug uglies and the
thugs the actual assassins sat with them
met with their families pressed them
push them extracted information from
them extraordinary documentation
firsthand witnesses that people paled
before the prospect of even contacting
there was Joan traveling on her own for
almost eight years from place to place
meeting these people and gaining their
confidence and
convincing them of the necessity at this
point in time to come forward and she
has obtained their data
she has obtained their verification she
is contained if you like their
first-hand accounts it isn't just a
breathtaking achievement as you read it
you will be astonished at the audacity
the courage and the perseverance that
has produced this extraordinary work we
have so much more to discuss in terms of
the interviews and particularly the role
of Robert Kennedy in sabotaging the
investigation why he would do such a
thing
why would he sabotage the investigation
of his own brothers close brother to
whom he was very close the assassination
and what this means also going to
discuss later on in the show the role of
the top echelon of the CIA and the
involvement of Richard Helms and James
Angleton and others in this
assassination our brothers and sisters
point man for the murder of Patrice
Lumumba and then Frank Carlucci the head
of the Carlyle Group is a man named
Frank Carlucci a key figure in the
Central Intelligence Agency operation
that entailed the assassination of John
F Kennedy a man named Frank Carlucci
a key collaborator of Bush Senior and
Bush jr. a man named Frank Carlucci
it all comes together here the murder
state the criminalization of the state
the execution of the head of state the
treason at the top detail the
particularity the listening of the
witnesses the establishment of the
documents and the connections connecting
the dots bringing it all together
farewell to justice by John Owen you
have to have it brothers and sisters
because it illuminates decades of the
decomposition of what passes for the
state in this country you were talking
about rose Jeremy and then here on page
206 it says back in New Orleans garrison
and covered roses 20 elias 'as her name
appeared everywhere but in the warren
commission index of names the state
police had not taken her photograph or
prints and then you have a person named
please Frances freesia and Frances
freesia was a state trooper who was who
ultimately with mrs. Dischler became the
investigators for Jim Garrison up at
Clinton in Jackson and freesia enters
the story here because he was a state
policeman in charge of narcotics and so
he knew Rose Cheramie very well because
she plied her trade prostitution drugs
on Route 190 down there from Opelousas
to the border of Texas in Beaumont which
again names that we know because of the
recent catastrophes down there and so
when Rose was thrown out of a car this
is the time number one and she's dazed
she's on drugs and Francis Boucher is
called that's where the story starts as
far as where Sharma is concerned and
Frances freesia is told to take her to
ease to the east Louisiana State
Hospital and wall roses with him she's
talking and talking and she's telling
how Oswald and Ruby knew each other and
how the assassination was planned and
how she was with the Cubans and so
Frances freesia enters the story at that
time and it says here that her death
certificate reads quote bullet in the
head although hospital records mentioned
no bullet hole I don't know about that
and garrison could never find it
the motorist who supposedly ran Rose
over it was not at the address that he
gave and garrison had no way of
investigating there I want to say
something else about garrison and that
is how short-staffed he was he only had
a few people for your four people
working on this case he had very little
money he had to borrow money from the
Volkswagen dealer down there he had a
small group called truth and
consequences and for a while they gave a
hundred dollars a month for his
investigation and then they stopped
after a few months he really was working
on a shoestring and so there were a lot
of areas that he couldn't investigate
and I think the death of ro Cheramie was
one another was pious a Sarah and all
the information that they had given
about the CIA's role in European
politics garrison just did not have the
resources to follow up on these aspects
of the case and many of his witnesses
who he nailed and they were key in
central witnesses they simply went into
other states and then the governors
refused to extradite them well that's
true and I think we have to realize
it was Walter Sheridan on behalf of the
Department of Justice who telephoned the
governors of those states where the
witnesses were and ordered them not to
extradite it was true in Ohio in the
case of Gordon Oval Gordon Novell had
been charged as a material witness by
garrison he wanted him to talk to the
grand jury and the governor of Ohio
just refused to extradite Novell the
same was true of a woman named Sandra
Moffett who had been pari Russo's
companion at the party that I referred
to where David Ferrie and Clay Shaw were
and not a single witness was extradited
by any state back to New Orleans to help
Jim garrison you know I in mind of the
time when we formed the who killed
Kennedy Committee in London that is the
moment when the established media became
absolutely rabid The Guardian at the
time published an editorial in which
they said that I was a pathological
American who had a psychopathic loathing
for the country in which he had been
read they didn't say spawned and I
remember John when we were seeing Jim in
1969 I was joking with Jim about the
kinds of attacks to which we had each
been subjected over the years and as Jim
was so clear about this you know if they
if they don't offer you its character
assassination
Jim was subjected to the most relentless
reinvention character assassination even
the vindication and a court of law
wasn't sufficient when this fabrication
about his taking bribes from pinburrough
machine operators which is a Justice
Department plot against garrison was
exposed the New York Times to this day
continues to write as if he had been
convicted of this and Jim used to say
the following he says you tell it all as
soon as you know it because there is no
other immunity from the fate of so many
of these witnesses because the more you
make noise about what we know and that's
what free speech radio was about
brothers and sisters what that's what
taking aim is for you tell it all as
soon as you know you get it out there
you mobilize people around this
understanding and then this truth so
that the consequence of doing us in put
it bluntly is that you call attention to
the information that you've been
disseminating they can only attempt to
assail us
and destroy our characters and that they
did relentlessly to Jim Garrison Jim
Garrison was the man who was going to be
governor of Louisiana in fact he had he
had been marked by as a as a coming
figure in Democratic Party politics he
may end well have been considered as a
vice presidential candidate or beyond
his political career he cared less about
he sacrificed every prospect to his
dedication to unfolding this truth into
exposing what he called war complex he
said what was the Frazer to use Joan
well he used to say the war machine yes
but I meant in terms of let justice be
done
oh that's written on his grave let
justice be done though the heavens fall
it's and his children put that on his
tombstone
I hope the grave is intact over there in
the cemetery in Metairie when we sent
out notices about today's special the
three hours special people then
forwarded on to other lists and someone
called us back dark webmaster mark Belk
our archivist mark though Paulding said
that on one of the lists somebody had
sent back a notice they know Lee Harvey
Oswald was the lone assassin and fifth
day and age well I recommend that this
person must read this book because shows
clearly ho Lee Harvey Oswald was and his
relationship to clay shot David Ferrie
and Juan Valdez and Joan let's continue
with the role of Robert Kennedy into
obstructing this investigation and you
mentioned before that garrison had very
few investigators working with him some
of them were inexperienced you didn't
have the fun and we talked about Walter
Sheridan planting Gordon Novell but
there were other people who were planted
into garrison wait a moment what Maya is
talking about there is the CIA document
that several investigators found that
the CIA allowed some of the House Select
Committee investigators to look at
documents they could not take notes they
could not remove them or copy them but
they could look and one of the documents
that they found was a list of the
plants in Garrison's office and among
them was his best friend who was his
chief criminal investigator Pershing
Gervais and another what was Greek all
actually what's in the book of not even
published in but I think that there was
Raymond's back who was an FBI plant and
there's a whole list of people there was
William wood who garrison had nicknamed
Foxley and he was were all people who
were sent in to subvert Garrison's
investigation one of the people whose
name was not on the list I don't think
was a young Englishman named Tom Bethel
who was presented himself as Garrison's
researcher and they were so short-handed
that they needed him to compile the list
of witnesses for the trial of Clay Shaw
and what Tom Bethel did was one day in
the hallway of the federal courthouse he
handed the witness list to Clay Shaw his
defense to the lawyers for Clay Shaw and
that was that Tom bevel now James Phelan
was not in Garrison's office James
Phelan was just supposed writer for The
Saturday Evening Post who turns out to
report everything that he did to the FBI
on the CIA and those documents exist
Naiya had a question about the average I
really because this is something that is
so startling to me when you go into this
race detail about why Bobby Kennedy
would obstruct the investigation of his
brothers offense
I was really finished the book was
improves and I just wanted to find one
made one last attempt to try to figure
out why Robert Kennedy tried to destroy
Jim Garrison and Jim Garrison during his
time was absolutely perplexed by this
and garrison would say if it were my
brother if my brother were killed I want
to know what happened to him he knew
that Robert Kennedy was working against
him but he couldn't figure out why and
so I went down to Miami and thanks to
Gerald Patrick hemming who was one of
the soldiers of fortune who was involved
in training people to go murder Fidel
Castro the Gerald Patrick hemming
remained friendly with one of the Cubans
who was close to Robert Kennedy and
because of Gerald Patrick Hemings
relationship with this Cuban his name
was Angelo Kennedy who changed his name
from Angelo morgado to angelo kennedy i
was able to have a very good
session with mr. Kennedy and to discuss
what Bobby Kennedy knew and when he knew
it and I found out that a group of
Cubans among whom was Angela were
working for Robert Kennedy they knew
that something was happening in New
Orleans lest anyone doubt that the
assassination of John F Kennedy was
planned and implemented as much in the
state of Louisiana as it was in Dallas
in November of 1963
so these Cubans went up to New Orleans
to see what was happening and also by
the way one of their roles was to
protect John F Kennedy if they could
find out whether there was an
assassination plot brewing in New
Orleans and it would be from some Cuban
who was disaffected and angry at
President Kennedy because President
Kennedy did not give full military
support to the invasion of Cuba at the
Bay of Pigs then maybe they could
protect Kennedy and they knew that there
was so much talk of an assassination
so the Cubans go to New Orleans and they
mixing in anti-castro circles they find
Lee Harvey Oswald they report about Lee
Harvey Oswald to Robert Kennedy so here
we have Robert Kennedy and this is
something that has never come out that
Robert Kennedy knew about Lee Harvey
Oswald and knew quite a lot about him
prior this is several months prior to
the assassination they also discovered
that Lee Harvey Oswald was an FBI
informant now this in case anyone doubts
that Lee Harvey Oswald was a government
agent and Robert Kennedy thought it over
and he said well if he's working for the
FBI if the FBI has him under control we
don't have to worry about him
naivete of Robert Kennedy and so they
let him go
and Angelo Kennedy then turns out to
have been one of the three men and this
is extremely important three men two
Cubans and a man named Leon Oswald
visited a Cuban exile in Dallas named
Sylvia odyo in September of 1963 and
they're talking about how her hell
because her father was in jail in Cuba
helping them to do damage to Fidel
Castro to organize a movement against
Castro and one of them was called Angelo
which when we knows Angelo Morgado one
of them were called himself Leopoldo
whose name was not Leopoldo and out of
Angelo's hearing a couple of days later
Leopoldo calls back Silvio do and says
you know
Leoni Oswald was really crazy he said
that some Cubans should kill John F
Kennedy because of what he did at the
Bay of Pigs well that sets up Oswald
doesn't it it sets him it Freight it
helps the framing of Oswald by showing
that he was talking about the
assassination three months before the
assassination so did that meant he was
involved right
of course this Oswald always said he was
a patsy well here is Oswald being set up
to take the blame for the assassination
now Angelo did not know about that call
and so during the weekend of the
assassination when he watches television
like everyone else and sees Lee Harvey
Oswald named as the assassin of
President Kennedy and here he was with
Oswald at Solio Tio's in September well
he just said that he was viscerally sick
he just vomited he was so upset the
person who made that call Leopoldo turns
out to have been a CIA asset named
Bernardo de Torres and also with Angelo
both of them veterans of the Bay of Pigs
invasion and one of the interesting
things that I discovered was that when
Bernardo de Torres was deposed by the
House Select Committee the CIA visited
the lawyers of the House Select
Committee prior to the deposition and
told him exactly what they could and
could not ask for Nardo de Torres and
they was not to be asked anything about
the period of time just prior to the
assassination and because the House
Select Committee investigation was
really run by the CIA he was not asked
those questions and gaining Fonzi who
was the Miami investigator and who had
brought them Bernardo de Torres is
sitting there and he thought to himself
and this was a wonderful line that he
gave me anyone watching anyone looking
at this deposition would have thought of
all the hundreds of thousands of Cubans
why did the House Select Committee
choose this guy to bring in for
questioning and of course Bernardo de
Torres I don't believe is in the United
States any longer
now in relation to this we have to be
clear when you're down in Miami and
you're talking to these people and
you're meeting with them JME waves of
people and so on you're talking about
contract killers who were in the
business of killing Fidel Castro Angelo
Kennedy is not so young anymore and he
laughed and he said don't fit but and I
think one of the quotes that I put in
the book he said don't think because I'm
so nice
I was a killer I was an executioner now
he not only was he a killer but what's
very important here John is and I don't
think anybody has ever uncovered this
except you
whose killer was he talk about that no
he was not President Kennedy's killer if
you know what I mean right dad what was
the relationship of Robert Kennedy to
this plan to assassinate Fidel and well
they didn't of course he was not the
killer because they did not have
assassinate Fidel Castro's we have to
say is alive today but I want to make
absolutely clear of Angelo lugod owes
affection for the Kennedys and his
hatred of Fidel Castro yes and his
willingness to participate in Robert
Kennedy's personal set of plots against
Fidel Castro that's certainly true and
these are plots independent of the CIA's
plots against Fidel Castro but Angelo I
have to his affection for the Kennedys
exist to this day and one of the things
that he did was he showed me one of his
prized possessions and he comes out of
the room with a photograph of John F
Kennedy Bobby Kennedy and Teddy Kennedy
and they were tremendously moving to me
to see his affection for these well
that's not withstanding I think what I
think is of some significance here is as
you have documented Robert Kennedy had
an assassination team plan and projects
for the execution of Fidel Castro that's
true
and indeed the people who were involved
in this which included connection with
Lee Harvey Oswald meant that for Robert
Kennedy to expose the murder of his
brother meant to expose his own plans
with some of these very same people for
the execution of Castro that's true and
also that even new Oswald and one of the
people down there no one we would want
to know but one of the people said
goddamn Bobby's got his brother killed
words like seeing into those events led
you know there's a connection certainly
ROH I can remember John when I was at
the time giving evidence who Dick
Gregory before the Rockefeller
Commission and
seventy-five and later I was on these
Tom Snyder's show and as always I was
being as well Robert Kennedy a former
attorney general you think it he would
be quiet if there was a CIA involvement
in the murder of John Kennedy and I said
to Tom Schneider you judge the silence
in the light of the evidence not the
evidence in the light of the silence
what you've done here because I said is
these people have blood on their hands
you think he woke up one day and said
isn't that interesting to trace Lumumba
bit the dust in Congo isn't it nice
John Sousa and the meetings of the
Guatemalan guerrilla movement have been
have been murder do you think that these
people are immune to the carrying out of
executions they're going to expose the
murder apparatus of which they are an
integral part documented it elucidated
it you've exposed it and you explained
not just the indifference to the
investigation of Jim Garrison but the
fanatical manner in which Robert Kennedy
and his instrument Sheridan sought to
destroy garrison to eliminate witnesses
and to shut down the investigation they
didn't succeed of course
garrison stayed till the end even until
his death trying to find out what
happened this is WBAI 99.5 fm on your
dial www BAI org we're speaking with
investigative author Joan Mellon the
author of 17 remarkable books and this
one tops them all farewell to justice
Jim Garrison JFK's assassination and the
case that should have changed history
when we come up on the next hour we're
going to be discussing more about the
CIA in the three-hour special taking aim
there is no other station like it in the
world and that's why so many people are
listening via the Internet to WBAI
around the world and we get letters from
people in far away as Australia
regularly lady Marian Norway in China
and Cuba and Greece and just recently
Mexico in response to our series on
creating the next pandemic
this is a book that you will read over
and over again you will underline you
will mock up and you can see all my
marks Ralph is even more and Ralph is
somebody who's been working on the issue
of the Kennedy assassination for
countless years weigh counts for over 40
years and still Joan has been able to
shock surprise and I must say please
Ralph to no end with all that she has
compiled prepared and the remarkable
analysis is involved in a farewell to
justice not only is this the
corroboration of what Jim Garrison was
doing it goes much much further I wanted
to quote something from your book on
page 174 where you write Oswald Garrison
concluded had been quote an employee of
the CIA which skilfully nurtured him and
convinced him that he was performing
undercover intelligence assignments for
the government unquote Oswald was quote
write and deeply experienced if
low-level and had he not been eliminated
he'd still be talking garrison said
agency garrison was firmly convinced was
behind the assassination CIA is a major
menace to the democracy I thought we
lived in he told the press agency
garrison was firmly convinced was behind
the assassination CIA is a major menace
to the democracy I thought we lived in
he told the press Joan melons a farewell
to justice Jim Garrison JFK's
assassination in the case that should
have changed history this is taking aim
with Rosh Hashanah and Maya shone
October 11th our special three hour
broadcast for a discussion with Joan
Mellon about her newly published book
hot off the presses farewell to justice
Jim Garrison JFK's assassination and the
case that should have changed history we
have discussed in the past two hours
that Lee Harvey Oswald is not alone
assassin was a government agent CIA
FBI US Customs and that Lee Harvey
Oswald knew David Ferrie work closely
with him and with Clay Shaw that there
was the planning and implementation of
the Kennedy assassination centered here
in New Orleans as well as in Dallas and
Jones follows the Louisiana connections
and also we're going to discuss setting
up we've discussed the setting up of
Oswald visit Patsy but also joning
covered a second before we get to the
second Patsy I want to make reference to
the problem Richard case Niguel John
we've discussed him garrison believe
that Niguel was as you put it the
closest thing to the key to the
assassination that there is in one man
the CIA had it signed Niguel to surveil
Oswald in New Orleans in summer of 63
and then Niguel uncovered the plot to
murder Kennedy if you find out what I
had to do with Arlo and he had to do it
with me you will know what this is all
about
you have with Niguel writing to Richard
Hopkins but let's just look at him a
moment a military intelligence officer
with the counterintelligence core of the
US Army recruited to the Central
Intelligence Agency first meeting Oswald
in Japan Niguel worked for the CIA red
squad spying on dissident organizations
he was investigating associates of what
he called the right-wing extremists
David Ferrie and he was referring to
none other than Sergio our kaca Smith
Niguel went to Louisiana as Oswald's
manager he connected our kaca Smith with
a la dia del Valle who would be murdered
in Miami after Jim Garrison was
preparing to indict him and he defined
himself as having a special mission
he stated that they're very banister
group which he had infiltrated his
oswald circle and the t's with essential
people in preparing the murder of John F
Kennedy and here we have Miguel writing
to J Edgar Hoover on September 17th
warning that Kennedy was about to be
assassinated naming Oswald's aliases and
then writing to DES
Fitzgerald a jam wave in which he
returns money that was to have been
supplied to Oswald Garrison one of the
interview Niguel what happened what did
William Martin do how was that sabotage
garrison thought that Niguel would be
the best witness he had but just to make
a long story short and I tell it in the
book Niguel finally refused to testify
at the trial of Clay Shaw that the
agency for which he worked was the CIA
and that made him really not a usable
witness so after all was said and done
it was really not William Martin William
Martin was one of the plants in
Garrison's office that we referred to in
the last segment and clearly had worked
for the CIA before he entered Garrison's
office as an assistant district attorney
and later immediately called the CIA as
soon as he left and Garrison because
William Martin spoke Spanish now I can't
figure out why would that be the reason
that he sent him to see Richard case
Miguel but anyway I think Martin had
volunteered he was going to go interview
Richard case Miguel who at that time was
in Springfield prison which was a
federal psychiatric prison and Richard
case Miguel immediately saw that William
Martin who was CIA connected but
ultimately Richard case Miguel what's
important about him I think is his
analysis of the situation the fact that
he under he knew ferry he knew Shaw and
he knew that Richard Helms was behind
the assassination and he knew that John
F Kennedy was threatening the power of
the CIA and that this was the motive
this is something that we haven't talked
about so much in today that the motive
of the CIA in destroying John F Kennedy
had to do with Kennedy's challenge to
the CIA which as President Truman said
in an op-ed piece on the front page of
the Washington Post for months after the
assassination that the CIA was running a
shadow government and John F Kennedy had
made serious inroads in reducing the
power of the CIA reducing the power of
the Director of Central Intelligence
reducing the activities that they were
involved in reducing their budget and as
a result of this the CIA really was not
just angry at Kennedy because of his
policies but because the very
institution was threatened and Richard
case Niguel in a series of letters that
he wrote to a friend and Max
reveals that he knew all of this and he
knew that Richard hounds was behind the
assassination plus his surveillance of
Oswald and his knowledge of the
foreknowledge of the assassination led
him to be would have been a remarkable
witness and I should tell the audience
we didn't mention is that when Richard
case Miguel realized that the
assassination of President Kennedy was
being planned and then Oswald was going
to be involved in it in some way he went
to a bank in El Paso and shot off a gun
in which you do in a bank meant that
that was a federal crime and it was he
was immediately put in prison
which meant if he were in prison he knew
that he could not be implicated himself
in the assassination that's how close to
the assassination plot that he came
unfortunately even later years later
when Richard case Miguel was about to
testify before the House Select
Committee he dies and so he never
actually revealed all that he knew
although a remarkable book was written
about Richard case Miguel called the man
who knew too much by dick Russell right
now it's interesting you see here that
were describing Kennedy's designs upon
the Central Intelligence Agency covert
operations division that was outside his
control but the operations to murder of
Fidel Castro were not something to which
he took exception and he was seeking to
have it wasn't he indeed the Kennedy
brothers obsessed with James Bond and
covert operations themselves except they
wanted to run them well I don't really
believe that Kennedy's policies but what
the CIA was so disturbed about of course
it alternately comes to that that the
CIA operating for and I think we need to
make a statement that the CIA does not
operate alone as a as an institution but
rather represents the views of the
Pentagon certainly it did during
Kennedy's time and that both the
Pentagon and the CIA favored a ground
war which John F Kennedy opposed it
wasn't that he was a democratic or that
he opposed the idea of fighting in
Vietnam but rather he believed that
covert operations were the answer
Special Forces Green Berets and that if
this didn't work he would go in for
coalition government in Vietnam and the
style of what he had in Laos he did not
want and the Pentagon favoring that
ground war of course got that war as
soon as
he was was out of the way you mentioned
Richard Helms could you discuss his role
in the Kennedy assassination well we
don't have and I think I wouldn't claim
to have a scene in my book in which
Richard Helms plans with various group
of people whose names we know the
assassination but certainly the
assassination emanated from the
clandestine services of which Richard
Helms as Deputy Director for plans was
at the head and I also want to emphasize
the enormous participation of the Office
of the General Counsel Lawrence Huston
in all of these events Houston even went
so far as to subvert a potential
garrison witness in the Shah trial whose
name was out for Jay Moran and who was
one of those witnesses who was a CIA
asset worked for JM wave and could have
testified that he saw Clay Shaw at the
Eastern Airlines terminal on the day
when the name clay Bertrand appears in
the guest registration book which would
have meant that garrison had the proof
beyond any doubt that clay Shaw was the
man who called Dean Andrews and as clay
Bertrand and said please go to Dallas to
represent Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA
made a tremendous effort Alfred J Moran
who had no particular admiration for Jim
Garrison went to a cocktail party the
night after Garrison's office
interviewed him and said Jim Garrison
has an ironclad case and what the CIA
did after that was to do everything in
its power to make sure that that
statement by Alfred J Moran was erased
and that Alfred J Moran would then give
another statement for the record saying
that he didn't really mean it and yet
Phaethon garrison didn't know what he
was talking about and that he did not
see Clay Shaw at the Eastern Airlines
terminal I just wanted to go back again
to the conflicts at the highest levels
of State with Kennedy and the CIA
because you write here in May of 1961
only a month after the Bay of Pigs
Kennedy formed his own special group
meeting as the president's foreign
intelligence advisory board it's express
purpose was to bring the CIA under the
control of the president quote covert
action programs of the CIA
may not have been worth the risk nor
worth the great expenditure of manpower
and money Kennedy told the group on May
15th so what he wanted was his own
covert operations group say general
Maxwell Taylor whom he appointed special
assistant for intelligence was to be on
top of covert operations because you
were talking before about how Robert
Kennedy had his own anti-castro
assassination team and plans and here we
have Kennedy wanting his own CIA
operations much the way now that
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld
that was trying to bypass the role of
the CIA with his own covert operations
group under the Pentagon's well which
they succeeded in doing but I want to
said quote one of the soldiers of
fortune
Ralph mentioned Gerald Patrick hemming
who remarked to me one day John F
Kennedy was the last president who
thought he could take power and I think
that's really true I mean after all
Kennedy was president he really thought
that policymaking would be his and that
the CIA would not be making
contradictory policies to his own apart
from his general agreement that it would
have been better for that thorn in his
side in Cuba to be done away with now
you remember that both Helms and James
Jesus Angleton were defining figures in
setting the platform and the program for
the was announced of the murder of the
head of state and of course that hemming
had stated Helms is behind the entire
operation to kill JFK and indeed you
site and they gelt himself as saying
dirty dick Helms brand CIA's dirty
tricks he was the person who gave the
order for john f kennedy's murder and
this view was shared by colonel william
bishop Niguel CIA associate who said
Bichir Helms gave the order for the
assassination when nego refers to dirty
tricks he's referring there to the
clandestine services of the CIA right
and Angleton after all had been a
pivotal figure here both with regard to
the cost-effective program which
entailed Lee Harvey Oswald and the
counterintelligence operations working
great attend club with covert operations
in all
that man correct yes let's talk a moment
about the extraordinary revelation that
you have made in this book about the
second fantasy the rabbi
Thomas Edward Beckham is the figure
about whom ralph is speaking he enters
the story very early on when Jack Martin
whom I establish in this book was a
longtime CIA operative Jack Martin
mentions him as someone Garrison should
look into garrison brought Beckham
ultimately before his grand jury and I
think one of the aspects of this book
that's brand-new are the scenes in Omaha
where Thomas Edward Beckham is moving
between Nebraska and Iowa and to a safe
house in Iowa run by the CIA and attempt
to evade the subpoena from Orleans
Parish eventually however Jack Martin
calls Beckham and tells him to go back
to Nebraska and he's caught and he's
sent to Orleans Parish and he testifies
to the grand jury in lies everything
every word he says practically is a lie
and it's left at that years later I
guess a decade later the house where
what was he being at well he was asked
about guy Bannister about Lee Harvey
Oswald about clay Shaw and in fact he
knew all of these things he knew all of
these people he certainly knew that Shaw
knew Ruby for example Garson didn't even
know at that time what Beckham would
reveal to the House Select Committee
which was that he was present at
meetings and Algiers again a name we all
know now and at the Town & Country motel
which was owned by carlos marcello
discussing the assassination that he was
present at those meetings garrison did
not yet know that Thomas Edward Beckham
was given an assignment from David
ferry's lawyer G ray Gill to take a big
bunch of maps diagrams and materials
about Dealey Plaza to Dallas to put into
the hands of a soldier of fortune who
worked for the CIA named Lawrence Howard
the week before the assassination so he
was really a courier for the people who
were involved in the assassination of
John F Kennedy the House Select
Committee interviewed him several times
and got a certain amount of information
about these meetings and when I talked
to Rob
Buras in LJ Dulce they encouraged me to
try to find bekommen to see what more he
could tell me and so I eventually
through the help of his daughter who
lives in New Orleans tracked him down
and then he told me of how I would say
some months during the year 1963 he
Ricci he had a post office box in the
same post office where Lee Harvey Oswald
had his post office box that many of
these other CIA assets had theirs and he
was given a ticket to go to Virginia and
he was taken to the CIA training
facility and he was trained to be a CIA
asset I suppose he was and the reason
that they liked him and there's a
document that he gave me that no one has
seen and that his own handler
fredchristman gave him which shows why
he was of such interest to the CIA and
it said that he had no psychological
guilt with respect to killing so we can
see that he was the kind of person that
they could set up and I should say that
prior to this and is there only days
Jack Martin had tried to have him
committed to mental facilities mental
health facilities in Mandeville and in
New Orleans itself exactly the same
pattern that was used with Lee Harvey
Oswald whereas world was going to get a
job at the East Louisiana State Hospital
at Jackson the same thing happened to
Beckham he was a figure whom no one
would miss and so forth and that's
really parallel to the type of assassin
that the CIA had cultivated what was
Beckham doing in New Orleans Beckham was
from New Orleans and Beckham was a
singer it was a country singer who sang
under the name of Mark Evans and when
the House Select Committee in a very
hostile deposition questioned him it
says Mark C Evans and they asked what
the C stood for and he was even though
he had never gone beyond the third grade
in school he answered the C stands for
country and he said that he was part of
the Louisiana Hayride which was a famous
I don't want to call it a rock concert
it was folk singing and in the early
days they discovered Johnny Cash Elvis
Presley sang up there and it emanated
that it was live radio emanating out of
Shreveport somebody sang there and he he
was just a courier a runner a person who
was attached to God banisters office and
and beckham's
there had put him in the hands of Jack
Martin because Jack Martin had promised
that he would help him in his singing
career remember that Jack Martin is a
Central Intelligence Agency operative
working out of guy Bannister's office
and with guy Bannister and I must say
that I'm the first to write that that's
correct but here is an extraordinary
revelation that emerges from your
meetings and discussions with Rabbi
Thomas Beck what kind of conditioning
and what kind of tests did they do on
Beckham at Langley if anybody has seen
the paralytics of you Alan Pakula with
Warren Beatty regarding the
assassination of a senator and the way
in which they program assassins and
break them down you would have thought
that they had a blueprint of what
occurred at Langley as you describe it
why don't you give it well I think that
was it was exactly as Ralph says as in
the movie the parallax view where
pictures are flashed on the wall and you
have to give free association of ideas
you're taken through a labyrinth of
rooms and you're asked to remember what
you saw and you're taught how not to
reveal anything about yourself you
taught not to smoke tobacco because the
scent of the tobacco would give you away
and there were a whole series of I guess
what we would call tradecraft that he
was told right you write in here he was
taught how to create false information
he's instructed never to volunteer an
opinion on any issue
he must not brag about anything he has
done he must never talk about anything
he has done in the past he has taught to
have only short conversations with
people and you mentioned that he meets
somebody who has one white eyebrow and
that's Robert burea so to whom the book
is dedicated the police officer and the
Robert Buras was interviewing him for
the House Select Committee so thomas ira
beckham said to me you know i really
didn't like that white eyebrow beak he
should really gettin rid of that because
it gave him away it was very amusing
actually I told Buras about that in
relation
- this John must reprise here Beckham is
groomed as a second Patsy he's a courier
as you say he's carrying military
diagrams of Dealey Plaza - the intended
assassin the actual killers he is
present during the meetings that include
the central figures that were discussing
here that the Jim garrison was in fact
on the trail of he writes his book on
the trail of the assassins that's who
he's talking about
there's a very poignant part of your
description of the role of Beckham and
particularly your interaction with
Beckham I want to describe that Ralph I
think what you're referring to is after
Beckham testified to Garrison's grand
jury which he denied everything he
denied any new Jack Martin even who was
his handler denied that he knew Oswald
and so it denied that he had anything to
do with the CIA
well according to Beckham what he told
me was after that grand jury appearance
and he went home he got a telephone call
from Jim Garrison and the person that
was with him that stuck to him like glue
was a person in a Roswell Thompson who
was a look a figure in the Ku Klux Klan
in Louisiana and so blatant was the Klan
in Louisiana that a Roswell Thompson
walked around in his coat in the white
sheets once a year he would wear the
white sheets in public with the pointed
hat and he would go to Lee circle and
put a wreath at the foot of the statue
of Robert Ely and i think the best
photograph i have in this book and there
are many photographs is the figure of
robert Buras the police officer as I
mentioned to whom the book is dedicated
standing next to a Roswell Thompson and
his Klan robes protecting his civil
liberties because as a police officer
everybody's throwing rocks and you know
an outrage that hears Roswell Thomason
walking around as a Klan ER and Robert
Buras is protecting a Roswell Thompson
well this same a Roswell Thompson was
with Thomas Edward Beckham on that day
after Beckham testified before the grand
jury and Garrison calls up and says
listen just tell me was I close and
Beckham it really doesn't want to admit
to anything and he says why ask me I
don't know anything and so forth and
what Beckham said to me this is a couple
of years ago when I did the interview I
wish I could have told him I wish I
could have told him how close he was
well it's not just how close he was but
how right Ani was right on target
anyway and Beckham too was frightened he
ran he was a conman and he ran from
place to place he could never settle
down he thought that the CIA was after
him and he's that he lived that life
until really the last few years
describe your the revelations that
Beckham is made to you and then his role
as a rabbi which is an extraordinary
transformation well he was half Jewish
his mother was Jewish which I think
makes you maybe all Jewish and he became
a rabbi and his mother had always wanted
one of her sons in fact one of the CIA
document that he was not really a CIA
document it's an Army Air Defense
document but it refers to his CIA
training and it's we mentions that he's
one of several brothers implying that he
wouldn't be missed in the family if
anything happened to him which is when
they were thinking of using him as the
patsy and in later years he became a
rabbi a practicing rabbi and a person
that dedicated himself to religion and
really trying to I think redeem himself
as many figures in this book did another
one of the figures are tried to redeem
himself when we haven't mentioned this
afternoon was a character called eCall
McNabb who was the CIA contract pilot he
also flew in the Congo he murdered
during that time I think if people
remember many nuns were murdered by
their was CIA bombings and this fellow
McNabb was involved in that years later
he tried to redeem himself by offering
Jim Garrison his assistance and he was
nicknamed by former FBI figure who
helped garrison name a bill Turner
Jim for Jim Garrison and rose because I
think the Rose Bowl was on at that time
and Jim Rose try to help Jim Garrison I
think in part to redeem himself for
those murderous CIA missions that he
flew many of them into Cuba many of them
where he risked his life was shot down
in the Caribbean and one time he said he
was shot down because we were talking
about the flight of John F Kennedy jr.
and McNair was a crackerjack aviator he
just said he wouldn't have gone but he
described to me how he landed a plane at
one point in the sea in the Caribbean
one foot on the rudder one foot in the
water
and sat on Iraq and waited for radio
Swann to come and get him and another
fact that I enjoyed very much was to
find out that John F Kennedy sent
Richard Goodwin down to Gerald Patrick
hemming and these soldiers of fortune
and no name key and asked them would
they please help him would they please
take over radio Swan take it away from
the CIA having refused and what you're
talking about here is John F Kennedy
trying to enlist these contract killers
these CIA killers as his own team which
is I think illuminating but also I
should say that their loyalty was to the
CIA and not to the President of the
United States and they didn't do it
and wasn't it David at least Phillips
was yes that's right very good my that's
right radio Swann was a project of David
Ellie Phillips could you describe what
radios on radios one was a propaganda
like we would think of radio for Europe
and where American propaganda is
broadcast to Cuba but also yeah of
course also when the CIA pilots got in
trouble radio Swan wood radio for help
to rescue them what I want to emphasize
here for our listeners is that these are
not just local yokels here you are
talking about hard and contract killers
in covert ops that involved the deaths
of many and the hunting down of people
and Joan enters into the lair encounters
them succeeds in inducing them to come
forward and has made the record I mean
the revelations that emerge from her
meetings with Angela Morgado or not to
mention Jerry Patrick hemming Beckham
with Thomas said Ben Beckham she has
actually induced to come forward in full
particularity and with documentation
nothing before had succeeded in inducing
this man to come forward this is a
person who has Jonas described lived his
life in fear of his own elimination
because so many of the people who had
guilty knowledge were quickly removed
from the scene they were found dead some
karate chops from heart attacks hatchet
in the head they don't survive long
poor volume work called forgive my grief
by 10 Jones which details some of this
here's John in the lion's den as it were
coming back with the evidence in the
documentation and drawing the full
political meaning of it farewell to
justice we've been speaking with joan
melons about her book soon to be
released a farewell to justice jim
garrison JFK's assassination and the
case that should have changed history
well when we were describing the
revelations that emerged out of the
investigative work that was initiated in
Italy by PI Z sera one of the emergent
structures that elucidates how the
ruling class affects its control was
this strange thing called central Mundi
Altamira alley or World Trade Mart there
is the International Trade Mart in New
Orleans Clay Shaw who has been involved
in the firm index and the central
Mondale commerciale e at the center of
the International Trade Mart in New
Orleans where do you think John Kennedy
was having lunch that day in Dallas at
the International Trade Mart in Dallas
what do you think determined the
motorcade route sent it to this obscure
Plaza Ely Plaza what was Jim Garrison
focusing on when he noted that Major
General Charles Cabell the deputy
director of the Central Intelligence
Agency who was obligated to leave the
CIA with the firing of Allen Dulles had
a brother who's the mayor of Dallas and
the father and grandfather before them
when we went to see Jim in 1969 what was
Jim focusing on Jim Jim was focusing on
the cabals
Jim was focusing on the fact that John F
Kennedy had fired Allen Dulles and
Dulles is second in command general
Coble resigned immediately as a result
and that his brother turned out to have
been the mayor of Dallas at the time
that John F Kennedy was killed and Jim
even when I last saw Jim garrison was in
1989 I was in New Orleans doing research
on the biography of K Boyle and garrison
was still talking about general Coble
and the parade route and the
assassination
and I should say that at that time he
had a best seller on the trail of the
assassins the movie JFK was being made
but these these things didn't interest
in half as much as the details that he
had discovered about the Kennedy
assassination I think that Jim Garrison
was and I hope I conveyed in my book
his humor when people asked him how he
thought that he could prosecute somebody
from the Central Intelligence Agency
involved in the assassination in a
conspiracy in a state court in Louisiana
Jim Garrison said I guess I thought I
was living in the country I was born in
and I think that's about my favorite
Garrison lawn and he liked to say that
as if he were incredulous this is not
the country it was not the country he
was born in and we today are not living
in the country we were born in and I
think part of that flows from the
cover-up and the lies that the American
public was told about the Kennedy
assassination and when Jim Garrison who
had nothing to gain from this as ralph
said when he decided to investigate
he too was vilified he was accused of
being everything in those days it was
the worst thing you could say about
someone was that he was homosexual he
was accused of having died of it you
know after he died there must have been
in aids and he was the Mafia everything
that you could possibly say that he also
didn't protect the rights of defendants
which was not true it was Sheridan who
didn't protect the right of the
defendant Jimmy Hoffa it was not
garrison garrison always protected
people's rights and Garrison refused to
prosecute as I said earlier on issues of
homosexuality on issues of obscenity
when James Baldwin's novel another
country was seized by police officers
and taken out of the Doubleday
bookstores in New Orleans garrison
refused to prosecute and he constantly
defended civil liberties and when Ralph
and I were in New Orleans I should say
in 1969 when we walked down the street
every african-american practically that
we passed said hello to mr. garrison I
couldn't understand why because I didn't
understand at the time that garrison had
garrison got his support and was elected
three times as District Attorney of
Orleans Parish because the black
community supported him the black
leadership supported him and them and
the Union supported him not the other
citizens of the city and he won even and
I should say won re-election even
after Clay Shaw was acquitted and I also
want to add Ralph that when you talked
about the case when the Department of
Justice brought garrison to trial for
supposedly having taken bribes from
pinball gambling interest pinball
gambling was illegal at the time what
happened at the trial was that it turned
out that there was a big man at Tulane
and broad and Tulane and broad was the
place where the criminal court was oh
yes there was a big man at Tulane and
broad who was taking bribes but it was
not Jim Garrison it turned out to have
been the Chief of Police
Joe gia Russo and what the federal
government had to do was to bring G
Russo before a federal grand jury
garrison gave his closing statement he
eventually represented himself and his
lawyers suggestion and Garrison talked
about himself and about his live old
children were sitting in the front row
and he said the last perfect person
lived on earth 2,000 years ago I wanted
you to give an account of who was
version Gervaise and how did the Justice
Department deploy him to destroy Jim
Garrison clear thing in the
documentation that Joan goes into in
this book is the collaboration of major
media Newsweek NBC other newspapers with
the FBI in the attempt to discredit Jim
Garrison and the investigation into the
assassination of President John F
Kennedy that is why it's so important to
have WBAI and to have a forum an
opportunity for Ralph schoneman
and myself and have Joan Mellon on this
program because here that you're going
to hear the truth
Pershing Gervaise this is a
Shakespearean story it's garrison being
betrayed by his best friend and I think
also we should say although Pershing
gervais was really he was an ex-cop who
was totally corrupt and Garrison made
him his chief investigator when garrison
first was elected District Attorney in
1962 because he said well he needs
somebody who knows the streets while
Pershing knew the streets and Pershing
took bribes from various nightclubs and
places and cafes and so forth and
ultimately what happened was that Walter
Sheridan who was never through with
garrison he
after Clay Shaw was acquitted Department
of Justice try to destroy garrison and
Walter Sheridan came back to New Orleans
and threatened Pershing gervais at that
time Gervais had been out of Garrison's
office for years and he said that will
put you in jail on income tax evasion
and we have these documents thanks to
the JFK I unless you wiretap Jim
Garrison and help us and so sure they
used a tape recorder and of course these
tapes are all spliced and they were all
altered but he betrayed garrison and
then at the end he decided nobody could
control Pershing Survey certainly not
the United States government he was the
one to himself and so finally just as
they were about to go to trial Pershing
who was now in Canada under a witness
protection program with a fake name
called his best friend reporter in New
Orleans a woman named rosemary James and
asked her to come up to Vancouver where
he was and said that he had been trying
to frame garrison at the direction of
the Department of Justice that garrison
wasn't guilty that all the tapes were
incorrect and that garrison didn't have
a nickel and that everybody knew that
and of course the case then was really
not going to be one garrison wanted
because of that and when Pershing
finally the Department of Justice forced
him to be a rebuttal witness it didn't
do any good
well what you're talking about here is
the suborning of perjury the conscious
and deliberate attempt on the part of
Sheridan and the US Department of
Justice to frame Jim Garrison on a
fabricated charge by suborning the
perjury of the corrupt figure and
creating scissors and paste spliced
tapes to establish the guilt of Jim
Garrison of something of which he had
not been guilty at all taking bribes for
the use of pinball machines in New
Orleans certainty of it
I wanted just quote this is a quote from
James Angleton which I think that was
sort of close to his death and I got it
from the book by Joseph Trento which I
think sums up the activities of some of
the CIA figures in our story that we've
talked about this afternoon it's
something that James Angleton told Joe
Trento I think Allen Dulles Richard
Helms Carmel Afyon Frank Wisner and
Frank Wisner was the person who had
collected a French nagy to be one of the
CIA assets the person who would
eventually be one of the founders of
Perman Dex Allen Dulles Richard Helms
carmela fee and Frank Wisner were the
grandmasters if you were in a room with
them you were in a room full of people
that you had to believe would deservedly
end up in hell
I guess I will see them there soon now I
don't know you can't call that quite a
deathbed confession but it's awfully
close
well Joan you remember that James Jesus
Angleton was a head of
counterintelligence and covert
operations had a drinking problem he
appeared before some reporters once and
he was drunk and he made the following
statement he says there are many rooms
in the mansion
I wasn't savvy to who shot John but of
course he was more than pretty well this
he was in the same mansion in any case
the one we're talking about and I also
I'm not going to quote it now but it's
in the book I have a semi deathbed
confession of by Clay Shaw where he's
visited in his hospital he was dying of
lung cancer and he told a French Quarter
artist George Duroy that garrison was
wrong but someone like me might well
have helped the CIA might well have
delivered a package might well he really
does describe exactly what he did in the
Kennedy assassination aiding and
abetting being part of the conspiracy
certainly not a shooter certainly it was
not his idea that John F Kennedy be
murdered but willing to participate well
after all in terms of deathbed
confessions we have the example of David
at least elipse himself why don't you
work David at Lee Phillips estranged
from his brother and near death himself
talked to his brother and this was
related to me by David at Liefeld
nephew Shawn and also was relayed to
dick Russell saying that were you in
Dealey Plaza and pretty much admitting
that he was in Dealey Plaza on November
22nd not shooting of course but
superintending another person who
apparently was a Dealey Plaza Bernardo
de Torres whom we mentioned earlier was
Leopoldo the visitor to Silvia oh do we
have here in the confluence of these
various people in charge of the overtops
and intelligence agencies the truth
emerging in spite of themselves not only
in their own words but in the documents
that establish their role and in that
regard we have not just the role of the
Justice Department the CIA and we have
to keep in mind that a key figure in all
of this was was J Edgar Hoover and one
of the other extraordinary things that
emerges from this book is the moral as
Mark felt not only J Edgar Hoover but
specifically mark felt the so called
deep throat would you describe what you
have disclosed here about the role of
Mark felt in relation to these events
Mark felt was one of the people in the
FBI charged with discrediting Jim
Garrison and he worked with the
second-in-command to the Attorney
General for the state of Louisiana a
jack P F ker milliohm trying to find
dirt on Jim Garrison and I discussed
that really in the introduction to the
book because I to get an idea the whole
FBI was involved in the discrediting of
Jim Garrison one of the things that J
Edgar Hoover did as soon as garrison
started was to issue a directive to all
special agents in charge to say give
garrison nothing and we have that in
writing yes and of course innovation to
this we were mentioning at the beginning
of this program Joan the fate of such as
Mary Sherman and of course we know that
right after the disclosure that Mary was
going to be indicted he was found dead
there was a specific area of work in
which both these people were engaged it
had to do with cancer would you describe
it I'm not going to say too much about
Mary Sherman and about her experiments
that she worked clearly in a government
lab in the dead of night Mary Sherman
worked for the Ochsner clinic and Alton
Ochsner
was a very close associate of Clay Shaw
both of them CIA assets their enormous
number of CIA documents about dr.
Ochsner somehow Mary Sherman is
connected to the ochsner clinic
connected to ferry connected to the US
Public Health Hospital where Oswald
himself was carrying in a vaccination
card when he was arrested in Dallas and
that is and that card came from that
hospital and I wish that people would
find in my book many hints that they
could continue this investigation my
book is not the Beagle in the end oh I
hope I've opened up areas of
investigation for people to go further
to look further to find new witnesses to
encourage new witnesses to come forward
is what Jim Garrison always wanted he
hoped that by Perri Russo coming forward
and being public other people would also
come forward and I think this is oh we
can hope for and I find that I was very
lucky really when I was in Miami I'm
looking at the book and I find another
soldier of fortune Edward I Arthur who's
well known to people who have studied
the anti-castro movement and Edward I
author told me he was warned by his CIA
controller during the summer in Miami
the summer of 1963 this guy Oswald if
you come across and stay away and
another CIA colleague at the time told
that Arthur Kennedy's not long for this
world
so they argue this was really an open
secret that the CIA was after Kennedy as
Maya said the mainstream press has
preferred to accept the Warren
Commission report although I think the
polls overwhelmingly state that nobody
really believes that I was well acted
alone but the evidence is overwhelming
not only that what we know today but
even what was known at the time oh it's
the entire panoply of events because
they had placed Oswald in Mexico City
and this under the direction of such as
David at Lee Phillips what was he doing
there I'm gonna leave the Mexico City
portion of the story to others I
concentrated in my book on the events
that happened during Oswald's day in
Louisiana from April of 1963 to the end
of September shortly before he goes to
visit Sylvia oh do you see all the cast
of characters the CIA
Fairey the the and david ferries roll i
should also add we haven't had a chance
to mention was to carry people out of
dallas if needed right after the
assassination and fly them to places in
latin america and that very plan of
ferry to take the assassins out and the
movements of ferry in relation to
Galveston and Dallas was the subject of
meetings for which there were witnesses
and part of the extraordinary
documentation in a farewell to justice
one of the people I found and I never
dreamed that I would was a friend of
David ferries called John Wilson and
John Wilson had seen Lee Harvey Oswald
giving out his leaflets on Canal Street
and then John Wilson was visiting ferry
at his apartment and who should he see
there but the same fellow who had been
giving out the leaflets and he said well
what's he doing at Dave's so in case
anybody doubted Perry Russo that he did
see Lee Harvey Oswald up there here's
John Wilson who really hasn't been
involved with this case at all has
talked to no writers or has been
interviewed by no government bodies
reporting on what happened and you
described many participants in gathering
so we call them at clay Shahs residence
in which they were deep in discussion
about the assassination witnesses two
very witnesses to Oswald witnesses to
Shaw present together and then in later
meetings with banister it by the time
you come to the vast number of witnesses
you've produced and evidence and
documents of their meetings and their
discussions there isn't a scintilla of
doubt as to the mechanism and the method
and the implementation of the execution
of John Kennedy
Lee Harvey Oswald was not a loner
government agent Jones reveals that not
just a government agent for the CIA and
the FBI but involved with with customs
and she goes into Oswald's operations
for these agencies he's closely
connected to the answer Castro's figures
in New Orleans it's a total mythology
about Oswald being in favor of Castro
that was the cover-up to set him up as a
pathway of which he wasn't aware this
included clay
Shaw garrison prosecuted David Ferrie
and a Cuban associate of Shaw's at the
International Trade Mart named Juan
Valdez there's an enormous cast of
characters Joan goes into the role of
the FBI and of Attorney General Robert
Kennedy to obstruct the investigation
planting people into the garrison crew
of investigators working with the major
media Newsweek NBC and other
publications to discredit Jim Garrison
going so far as to prosecute Jim
Garrison the District Attorney and later
who became judge in New Orleans yes my
Jacko's for the CIA chapter 17 in
jackals for the CIA you will find person
after person exposed for the sei
connections who are connected to Oswald
and who were involved on behalf of the
authorities and framing Oswald and in
establishing the cover story for the
execution of the president the
imputation to a presumptive Marxist for
the purpose of a political adventure
that was the real underlying context of
the assassination itself this is a
revelation this book and it is not just
a revelation but it is an establishing
documentation of what actually occurred
please support it obtain it promote it
disseminate it make it your own and
let's continue this struggle brothers
and sisters farewell to justice defines
what occurred in relation to the
execution of the head of state but it
also describes our subsequent history in
the period during which we are living at
this very moment for all of the events
that define the execution of the head of
state provide the platform for the
conduct of our affairs with the
treatment of our citizens and for the
nature of the state apparatus that has
control over us the martial law state
has its roots in the murder of Kennedy
the hegemony of the military into the
Central Intelligence Agency in our lives
and the destruction of the formal
protections that we have taken to be our
birthright are a direct
lineage with the execution of the head
of state and not just the cover-up but
the internalization of all of those
processes and the embrace of treason at
the highest levels joan is going to be
talking about a farewell to justice
across the united states support that
effort carry on the struggle brothers
and sisters
[Music]